[[Operating_modes]]
= Operating mode
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: ../images/]

WildFly can be booted in two different modes. A _managed domain_ allows
you to run and manage a multi-server topology. Alternatively, you can
run a _standalone server_ instance.

== Standalone Server

For many use cases, the centralized management capability available via
a managed domain is not necessary. For these use cases, a WildFly
instance can be run as a "standalone server". A standalone server
instance is an independent process, much like an JBoss Application
Server 3, 4, 5, or 6 instance is. Standalone instances can be launched
via the `standalone.sh` or `standalone.bat` launch scripts.

If more than one standalone instance is launched and multi-server
management is desired, it is the user's responsibility to coordinate
management across the servers. For example, to deploy an application
across all of the standalone servers, the user would need to
individually deploy the application on each server.

It is perfectly possible to launch multiple standalone server instances
and have them form an HA cluster, just like it was possible with JBoss
Application Server 3, 4, 5 and 6.

== Managed Domain

One of the primary new features of WildFly is the ability to manage
multiple WildFly instances from a single control point. A collection of
such servers is referred to as the members of a "domain" with a single
Domain Controller process acting as the central management control
point. All of the WildFly instances in the domain share a common
management policy, with the Domain Controller acting to ensure that each
server is configured according to that policy. Domains can span multiple
physical (or virtual) machines, with all WildFly instances on a given
host under the control of a special Host Controller process. One Host
Controller instance is configured to act as the central Domain
Controller. The Host Controller on each host interacts with the Domain
Controller to control the lifecycle of the application server instances
running on its host and to assist the Domain Controller in managing
them.

When you launch a WildFly managed domain on a host (via the `domain.sh`
or `domain.bat` launch scripts) your intent is to launch a Host
Controller and usually at least one WildFly instance. On one of the
hosts the Host Controller should be configured to act as the Domain
Controller. See <<Domain_Setup,Domain Setup>> for details.

The following is an example managed domain topology:

image:DC-HC-Server.png[images/DC-HC-Server.png]

[[host]]
=== Host

Each "Host" box in the above diagram represents a physical or virtual
host. A physical host can contain zero, one or more server instances.

[[host-controller]]
=== Host Controller

When the domain.sh or domain.bat script is run on a host, a process
known as a Host Controller is launched. The Host Controller is solely
concerned with server management; it does not itself handle application
server workloads. The Host Controller is responsible for starting and
stopping the individual application server processes that run on its
host, and interacts with the Domain Controller to help manage them.

Each Host Controller by default reads its configuration from the
`domain/configuration/host.xml` file located in the unzipped WildFly
installation on its host's filesystem. The `host.xml` file contains
configuration information that is specific to the particular host.
Primarily:

* the listing of the names of the actual WildFly instances that are
meant to run off of this installation.
* configuration of how the Host Controller is to contact the Domain
Controller to register itself and access the domain configuration. This
may either be configuration of how to find and contact a remote Domain
Controller, or a configuration telling the Host Controller to itself act
as the Domain Controller.
* configuration of items that are specific to the local physical
installation. For example, named interface definitions declared in
`domain.xml` (see below) can be mapped to an actual machine-specific IP
address in `host.xml`. Abstract path names in `domain.xml` can be mapped
to actual filesystem paths in `host.xml`.

[[domain-controller]]
=== Domain Controller

One Host Controller instance is configured to act as the central
management point for the entire domain, i.e. to be the Domain
Controller. The primary responsibility of the Domain Controller is to
maintain the domain's central management policy, to ensure all Host
Controllers are aware of its current contents, and to assist the Host
Controllers in ensuring any running application server instances are
configured in accordance with this policy. This central management
policy is stored by default in the `domain/configuration/domain.xml`
file in the unzipped WildFly installation on Domain Controller's host's
filesystem.

A `domain.xml` file must be located in the `domain/configuration`
directory of an installation that's meant to run the Domain Controller.
It does not need to be present in installations that are not meant to
run a Domain Controller; i.e. those whose Host Controller is configured
to contact a remote Domain Controller. The presence of a `domain.xml`
file on such a server does no harm.

The `domain.xml` file includes, among other things, the configuration of
the various "profiles" that WildFly instances in the domain can be
configured to run. A profile configuration includes the detailed
configuration of the various subsystems that comprise that profile (e.g.
an embedded JBoss Web instance is a subsystem; a JBoss TS transaction
manager is a subsystem, etc). The domain configuration also includes the
definition of groups of sockets that those subsystems may open. The
domain configuration also includes the definition of "server groups":

[[server-group]]
=== Server Group

A server group is set of server instances that will be managed and
configured as one. In a managed domain each application server instance
is a member of a server group. (Even if the group only has a single
server, the server is still a member of a group.) It is the
responsibility of the Domain Controller and the Host Controllers to
ensure that all servers in a server group have a consistent
configuration. They should all be configured with the same profile and
they should have the same deployment content deployed.

The domain can have multiple server groups. The above diagram shows two
server groups, "ServerGroupA" and "ServerGroupB". Different server
groups can be configured with different profiles and deployments; for
example in a domain with different tiers of servers ﻿providing different
services. Different server groups can also run the same profile and have
the same deployments; for example to support rolling application upgrade
scenarios where a complete service outage is avoided by first upgrading
the application on one server group and then upgrading a second server
group.

An example server group definition is as follows:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<server-group name="main-server-group" profile="default">
    <socket-binding-group ref="standard-sockets"/>
    <deployments>
        <deployment name="foo.war_v1" runtime-name="foo.war" />
        <deployment name="bar.ear" runtime-name="bar.ear" />
    </deployments>
</server-group>
----

A server-group configuration includes the following required attributes:

* name -- the name of the server group
* profile -- the name of the profile the servers in the group should run

In addition, the following optional elements are available:

* socket-binding-group -- specifies the name of the default socket
binding group to use on servers in the group. Can be overridden on a
per-server basis in `host.xml`. If not provided in the `server-group`
element, it must be provided for each server in `host.xml`.
* deployments -- the deployment content that should be deployed on the
servers in the group.
* deployment-overlays -- the overlays and their associated deployments.
* system-properties -- system properties that should be set on all
servers in the group
* jvm -- default jvm settings for all servers in the group. The Host
Controller will merge these settings with any provided in `host.xml` to
derive the settings to use to launch the server's JVM. See
<<JVM_settings,JVM settings>> for further details.

[[server]]
=== Server

Each "Server" in the above diagram represents an actual application
server instance. The server runs in a separate JVM process from the Host
Controller. The Host Controller is responsible for launching that
process. (In a managed domain the end user cannot directly launch a
server process from the command line.)

The Host Controller synthesizes the server's configuration by combining
elements from the domain wide configuration (from `domain.xml` ) and the
host-specific configuration (from `host.xml` ).

[[deciding-between-running-standalone-servers-or-a-managed-domain]]
== Deciding between running standalone servers or a managed domain

Which use cases are appropriate for managed domain and which are
appropriate for standalone servers? A managed domain is all about
coordinated multi-server management -- with it WildFly provides a
central point through which users can manage multiple servers, with rich
capabilities to keep those servers' configurations consistent and the
ability to roll out configuration changes (including deployments) to the
servers in a coordinated fashion.

It's important to understand that the choice between a managed domain
and standalone servers is all about how your servers are managed, not
what capabilities they have to service end user requests. This
distinction is particularly important when it comes to high availability
clusters. It's important to understand that HA functionality is
orthogonal to running standalone servers or a managed domain. That is, a
group of standalone servers can be configured to form an HA cluster. The
domain and standalone modes determine how the servers are managed, not
what capabilities they provide.

So, given all that:

* A single server installation gains nothing from running in a managed
domain, so running a standalone server is a better choice.
* For multi-server production environments, the choice of running a
managed domain versus standalone servers comes down to whether the user
wants to use the centralized management capabilities a managed domain
provides. Some enterprises have developed their own sophisticated
multi-server management capabilities and are comfortable coordinating
changes across a number of independent WildFly instances. For these
enterprises, a multi-server architecture comprised of individual
standalone servers is a good option.
* Running a standalone server is better suited for most development
scenarios. Any individual server configuration that can be achieved in a
managed domain can also be achieved in a standalone server, so even if
the application being developed will eventually run in production on a
managed domain installation, much (probably most) development can be
done using a standalone server.
* Running a managed domain mode can be helpful in some advanced
development scenarios; i.e. those involving interaction between multiple
WildFly instances. Developers may find that setting up various servers
as members of a domain is an efficient way to launch a multi-server
cluster.
