[[JVM_settings]]
= JVM settings

Configuration of the JVM settings is different for a managed domain and
a standalone server. In a managed domain, the domain controller
components are responsible for starting and stoping server processes and
hence determine the JVM settings. For a standalone server, it's the
responsibility of the process that started the server (e.g. passing them
as command line arguments).

[[managed-domain]]
== Managed Domain

In a managed domain the JVM settings can be declared at different
scopes: For a specific server group, for a host or for a particular
server. If not declared, the settings are inherited from the parent
scope. This allows you to customize or extend the JVM settings within
every layer.

Let's take a look at the JVM declaration for a server group:

[source, xml]
----
<server-groups>
       <server-group name="main-server-group" profile="default">
           <jvm name="default">
               <heap size="64m" max-size="512m"/>
           </jvm>
           <socket-binding-group ref="standard-sockets"/>
       </server-group>
       <server-group name="other-server-group" profile="default">
           <jvm name="default">
               <heap size="64m" max-size="512m"/>
           </jvm>
           <socket-binding-group ref="standard-sockets"/>
       </server-group>
</server-groups>
----

~(See~ `domain/configuration/domain.xml` ~)~

In this example the server group "main-server-group" declares a heap
size of `64m` and a maximum heap size of `512m`. Any server that belongs
to this group will inherit these settings. You can change these settings
for the group as a whole, or a specific server or host:

[source, xml]
----
<servers>
       <server name="server-one" group="main-server-group" auto-start="true">
           <jvm name="default"/>
       </server>
       <server name="server-two" group="main-server-group" auto-start="true">
           <jvm name="default">
               <heap size="64m" max-size="256m"/>
           </jvm>
           <socket-binding-group ref="standard-sockets" port-offset="150"/>
       </server>
       <server name="server-three" group="other-server-group" auto-start="false">
           <socket-binding-group ref="standard-sockets" port-offset="250"/>
       </server>
</servers>
----

~(See domain/configuration/host.xml)~

In this case, _server-two_, belongs to the _main-server-group_ and
inherits the JVM settings named _default_, but declares a lower maximum
heap size.

[source, ruby]
----
[domain@localhost:9999 /] /host=local/server-config=server-two/jvm=default:read-resource
{
   "outcome" => "success",
   "result" => {
       "heap-size" => "64m",
       "max-heap-size" => "256m",
   }
}
----

[[standalone-server]]
== Standalone Server

For a standalone sever you have to pass in the JVM settings either as
command line arguments when executing the
`$JBOSS_HOME/bin/standalone.sh` script, or by declaring them in
`$JBOSS_HOME/bin/standalone.conf`. (For Windows users, the script to
execute is `%JBOSS_HOME%/bin/standalone.bat` while the JVM settings can
be declared in `%JBOSS_HOME%/bin/standalone.conf.bat.)`
