docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/Migrated_to_WildFly_Example_Applications.adoc, before:

[[Migrated_to_WildFly_Example_Applications]]
= Example Applications - Migrated to WildFly

[[example-applications-migrated-from-previous-releases]]
== Example Applications Migrated from Previous Releases

The applications in this section were written for a previous version of
the server but have been modified to run on WildFly {wildflyVersion}. Changes were made
to resolve issues that arose during deployment and runtime or to fix
problems with application behaviour. Each example below documents the
changes that were made to get the application to run successfully on
WildFly.

[[seam-2-dvd-store-example]]
=== Seam 2 DVD Store example

For details on how to migrate this demo application, see
https://community.jboss.org/blogs/marek-novotny/2011/12/16/dvdstore-migration-for-jboss-as-710beta[Seam
2 DVD Store example on WildFly {wildflyVersion}] on Marek Novotny's Blog.

[[seam-2-booking-example]]
=== Seam 2 Booking example

For details on how to migrate this demo application, see
http://community.jboss.org/blogs/marek-novotny/2011/07/29/seam-2-booking-example-on-jboss-as-7[Seam
2 Booking example on WildFly {wildflyVersion}] on Marek Novotny's Blog.

[[seam-2-booking---step-by-step-migration-of-binaries]]
=== Seam 2 Booking - step-by-step migration of binaries

This document takes a somewhat different "brute force" approach. The
idea is to deploy the binaries to WildFly, then see what issues you hit
and learn how debug and resolve them. See <<Migrate_Seam_2_Booking_EAR_Binaries_-_Step_by_Step,Seam 2 Booking EAR Migration of Binaries - Step by Step>>.


[[jbpm-console-application]]
=== jBPM-Console application

Kris Verlaenen migrated this application from AS 5 to WildFly {wildflyVersion}. For
details about this migration, see http://kverlaen.blogspot.com/2011/07/jbpm5-on-as7-lightning.html[jBPM5 on WildFly] on his Kris's Blog.

[[order-application-used-for-performance-testing]]
=== Order application used for performance testing

Andy Miller migrated this application from AS 5 to WildFly. For details
about this migration, see <<Migrate_Order_Application_from_EAP5.1_to_WildFly,Order Application Migration from EAP5.1 to WildFly>>.

[[migrate-example-application]]
=== Migrate example application

A step by step work through of issues, and their solutions, that might
crop up when migrating applications to WildFly {wildflyVersion}. See the following
https://github.com/danbev/migrate[github project] for details.

[[example-applications-based-on-ee6]]
== Example Applications Based on EE6

Applications in this section were designed and written specifically to
use the features and functions of EE6.

* Quickstarts: A number of quickstart applications were written to
demonstrate Jakarta EE and a few additional technologies. They provide
small, specific, working examples that can be used as a reference for
your own project. For more information about the quickstarts, see
http://www.jboss.org/jdf/quickstarts/jboss-as-quickstart/guide/Introduction/[Get Started Developing Applications]

include::Migrate_Order_Application_from_EAP5.1_to_WildFly.adoc[]

include::Migrate_Seam_2_Booking_EAR_Binaries_-_Step_by_Step.adoc[]

Commit message:

[WFLY-14061] Further tweaks
Plus I cleaned up some of the text in the 'legacy app migration' section to clarify that the various linked docs are about migration to AS 7 not to the current WildFly

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/Migrated_to_WildFly_Example_Applications.adoc, after:

[[Migrated_to_WildFly_Example_Applications]]
= Example Applications - Migrated to WildFly

[[example-applications-migrated-from-previous-releases]]
== Example Applications Migrated from Previous Releases

The applications in this section were written for a previous version of
the server but have been modified to run on WildFly or JBoss AS 7,
which was based on the same core architecture WildFly uses. Changes were made
to resolve issues that arose during deployment and runtime or to fix
problems with application behaviour. Each example below documents the
changes that were made to get the application to run successfully.

[[seam-2-dvd-store-example]]
=== Seam 2 DVD Store example

For details on how to migrate this demo application, see
https://community.jboss.org/blogs/marek-novotny/2011/12/16/dvdstore-migration-for-jboss-as-710beta[Seam
2 DVD Store example on JBoss AS 7] on Marek Novotny's Blog.

[[seam-2-booking-example]]
=== Seam 2 Booking example

For details on how to migrate this demo application, see
http://community.jboss.org/blogs/marek-novotny/2011/07/29/seam-2-booking-example-on-jboss-as-7[Seam
2 Booking example on JBoss AS 7] on Marek Novotny's Blog.


[[jbpm-console-application]]
=== jBPM-Console application

Kris Verlaenen migrated this application from JBoss AS 5 to JBoss AS 7. For
details about this migration, see http://kverlaen.blogspot.com/2011/07/jbpm5-on-as7-lightning.html[jBPM5 on JBoss AS 7] on his Kris's Blog.

[[order-application-used-for-performance-testing]]
=== Order application used for performance testing

Andy Miller migrated this application from JBoss AS 5 to JBoss AS 7. For details
about this migration, see <<Migrate_Order_Application_from_EAP5,Order Application Migration from EAP5.1 to JBoss AS 7>>.

[[migrate-example-application]]
=== Migrate example application

A step by step work through of issues, and their solutions, that might
crop up when migrating applications to WildFly {wildflyVersion}. See the following
https://github.com/danbev/migrate[github project] for details.

[[example-applications-based-on-ee6]]
== Example Applications Based on EE6

Applications in this section were designed and written specifically to
use the features and functions of EE6.

* Quickstarts: A number of quickstart applications were written to
demonstrate Jakarta EE and a few additional technologies. They provide
small, specific, working examples that can be used as a reference for
your own project. For more information about the quickstarts, see
http://www.jboss.org/jdf/quickstarts/jboss-as-quickstart/guide/Introduction/[Get Started Developing Applications]

include::Migrate_Order_Application_from_EAP5.adoc[]
