docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/wsconsume.adoc, before:

[[wsconsume]]
= wsconsume

_wsconsume_ is a command line tool and ant task that "consumes" the
abstract contract (WSDL file) and produces portable JAX-WS service and
client artifacts.

[[command-line-tool]]
== Command Line Tool

The command line tool has the following usage:

....
usage: wsconsume [options] <wsdl-url>
options:
  -h, --help                  Show this help message
  -b, --binding=<file>        One or more JAX-WS or JAXB binding files
  -k, --keep                  Keep/Generate Java source
  -c  --catalog=<file>        Oasis XML Catalog file for entity resolution
  -j  --clientjar=<name>      Create a jar file of the generated artifacts for calling the webservice
  -p  --package=<name>        The target package for generated source
  -w  --wsdlLocation=<loc>    Value to use for @WebServiceClient.wsdlLocation
  -o, --output=<directory>    The directory to put generated artifacts
  -s, --source=<directory>    The directory to put Java source
  -t, --target=<2.0|2.1|2.2>  The JAX-WS specification target
  -q, --quiet                 Be somewhat more quiet
  -v, --verbose               Show full exception stack traces
  -l, --load-consumer         Load the consumer and exit (debug utility)
  -e, --extension             Enable SOAP 1.2 binding extension
  -a, --additionalHeaders     Enables processing of implicit SOAP headers
  -n, --nocompile             Do not compile generated sources
....

[IMPORTANT]

The wsdlLocation is used when creating the Service to be used by clients
and will be added to the @WebServiceClient annotation, for an endpoint
implementation based on the generated service endpoint interface you
will need to manually add the wsdlLocation to the @WebService annotation
on your web service implementation and not the service endpoint
interface.

[[examples-wsconsume]]
=== Examples

Generate artifacts in Java class form only:

....
wsconsume Example.wsdl
....

Generate source and class files:

....
wsconsume -k Example.wsdl
....

Generate source and class files in a custom directory:

....
wsconsume -k -o custom Example.wsdl
....

Generate source and class files in the org.foo package:

....
wsconsume -k -p org.foo Example.wsdl
....

Generate source and class files using multiple binding files:

....
wsconsume -k -b wsdl-binding.xml -b schema1-binding.xml -b schema2-binding.xml
....

[[maven-plugin-wsconsume]]
== Maven Plugin

The wsconsume tools is included in the
*org.jboss.ws.plugins:jaxws-tools-maven-plugin* plugin. The plugin has
two goals for running the tool, _wsconsume_ and _wsconsume-test_, which
basically do the same during different maven build phases (the former
triggers the sources generation during _generate-sources_ phase, the
latter during the _generate-test-sources_ one).

The _wsconsume_ plugin has the following parameters:

[cols=",,",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description |Default

|bindingFiles |JAXWS or JAXB binding file |true

|classpathElements |Each classpathElement provides alibrary file to be
added to classpath
|$\{project.compileClasspathElements}or$\{project.testClasspathElements}

|catalog |Oasis XML Catalog file for entity resolution |none

|targetPackage |The target Java package for generated code. |generated

|bindingFiles |One or more JAX-WS or JAXB binding file |none

|wsdlLocation |Value to use for @WebServiceClient.wsdlLocation
|generated

|outputDirectory |The output directory for generated artifacts.
|$\{project.build.outputDirectory}or$\{project.build.testOutputDirectory}

|sourceDirectory |The output directory for Java source.
|$\{project.build.directory}/wsconsume/java

|verbose |Enables more informational output about command progress.
|false

|wsdls |The WSDL files or URLs to consume |n/a

|extension |Enable SOAP 1.2 binding extension. |false

|encoding |The charset encoding to use for generated sources.
|$\{project.build.sourceEncoding}

|argLine |An optional additional argline to be used when running in fork
mode;can be used to set endorse dir, enable debugging,
etc.Example<argLine>-Djava.endorsed.dirs=...</argLine> |none

|fork |Whether or not to run the generation task in a separate VM.
|false

|target |A preference for the JAX-WS specification target |Depends on
the underlying stack and endorsed dirs if any
|=======================================================================

[[examples-wsconsume-1]]
=== Examples

You can use _wsconsume_ in your own project build simply referencing the
_jaxws-tools-maven-plugin_ in the configured plugins in your pom.xml
file.

The following example makes the plugin consume the test.wsdl file and
generate SEI and wrappers' java sources. The generated sources are then
compiled together with the other project classes.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<build>
  <plugins>
    <plugin>
      <groupId>org.jboss.ws.plugins</groupId>
      <artifactId>jaxws-tools-maven-plugin</artifactId>
      <version>1.2.0.Beta1</version>
      <configuration>
        <wsdls>
          <wsdl>${basedir}/test.wsdl</wsdl>
        </wsdls>
      </configuration>
      <executions>
        <execution>
          <goals>
            <goal>wsconsume</goal>
          </goals>
        </execution>
      </executions>
    </plugin>
  </plugins>
</build>
----

You can also specify multiple wsdl files, as well as force the target
package, enable SOAP 1.2 binding and turn the tool's verbose mode on:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<build>
  <plugins>
    <plugin>
      <groupId>org.jboss.ws.plugins</groupId>
      <artifactId>jaxws-tools-maven-plugin</artifactId>
      <version>1.2.0.Beta1</version>
      <configuration>
       <wsdls>
        <wsdl>${basedir}/test.wsdl</wsdl>
        <wsdl>${basedir}/test2.wsdl</wsdl>
       </wsdls>
       <targetPackage>foo.bar</targetPackage>
       <extension>true</extension>
       <verbose>true</verbose>
      </configuration>
      <executions>
        <execution>
          <goals>
            <goal>wsconsume</goal>
          </goals>
        </execution>
      </executions>
    </plugin>
  </plugins>
</build>
----

Finally, if the wsconsume invocation is required for consuming a wsdl to
be used in your testsuite only, you might want to use the
_wsconsume-test_ goal as follows:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<build>
  <plugins>
    <plugin>
      <groupId>org.jboss.ws.plugins</groupId>
      <artifactId>jaxws-tools-maven-plugin</artifactId>
      <version>1.2.0.Beta1</version>
      <configuration>
        <wsdls>
          <wsdl>${basedir}/test.wsdl</wsdl>
        </wsdls>
      </configuration>
      <executions>
        <execution>
          <goals>
            <goal>wsconsume-test</goal>
          </goals>
        </execution>
      </executions>
    </plugin>
  </plugins>
</build>
----

Plugin stack dependencyThe plugin itself does not have an explicit
dependency to a JBossWS stack, as it's meant for being used with
implementations of any supported version of the _JBossWS SPI_. So the
user is expected to set a dependency in his own `pom.xml` to the desired
_JBossWS_ stack version. The plugin will rely on the that for using the
proper tooling.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.jboss.ws.cxf</groupId>
    <artifactId>jbossws-cxf-client</artifactId>
    <version>4.0.0.GA</version>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
----

[TIP]

Be careful when using this plugin with the Maven War Plugin as that
include any project dependency into the generated application war
archive. You might want to set `<scope>provided</scope>` for the
_JBossWS_ stack dependency to avoid that.

[IMPORTANT]

Up to version 1.1.2.Final, the _artifactId_ of the plugin was
*maven-jaxws-tools-plugin*.

[[ant-task-wsconsume]]
== Ant Task

The _wsconsume_ Ant task ( _org.jboss.ws.tools.ant.WSConsumeTask_) has
the following attributes:

[cols=",,",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description |Default

|fork |Whether or not to run the generation task in a separate VM. |true

|keep |Keep/Enable Java source code generation. |false

|catalog |Oasis XML Catalog file for entity resolution |none

|package |The target Java package for generated code. |generated

|binding |A JAX-WS or JAXB binding file |none

|wsdlLocation |Value to use for @WebServiceClient.wsdlLocation
|generated

|encoding |The charset encoding to use for generated sources |n/a

|destdir |The output directory for generated artifacts. |"output"

|sourcedestdir |The output directory for Java source. |value of destdir

|target |The JAX-WS specification target. Allowed values are 2.0, 2.1
and 2.2 | 

|verbose |Enables more informational output about command progress.
|false

|wsdl |The WSDL file or URL |n/a

|extension |Enable SOAP 1.2 binding extension. |false

|additionalHeaders |Enables processing of implicit SOAP headers |false
|=======================================================================

[NOTE]

Users also need to put streamBuffer.jar and stax-ex.jar to the classpath
of the ant task to generate the appropriate artefacts.

[NOTE]

The wsdlLocation is used when creating the Service to be used by clients
and will be added to the @WebServiceClient annotation, for an endpoint
implementation based on the generated service endpoint interface you
will need to manually add the wsdlLocation to the @WebService annotation
on your web service implementation and not the service endpoint
interface.

Also, the following nested elements are supported:

[cols=",,",options="header"]
|=================================================
|Element |Description |Default
|binding |A JAXWS or JAXB binding file |none
|jvmarg |Allows setting of custom jvm arguments | 
|=================================================

[[examples-wsconsume-2]]
=== Examples

Generate JAX-WS source and classes in a separate JVM with separate
directories, a custom wsdl location attribute, and a list of binding
files from foo.wsdl:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<wsconsume
  fork="true"
  verbose="true"
  destdir="output"
  sourcedestdir="gen-src"
  keep="true"
  wsdllocation="handEdited.wsdl"
  wsdl="foo.wsdl">
  <binding dir="binding-files" includes="*.xml" excludes="bad.xml"/>
</wsconsume>
----

Commit message:

WFLY-14326 Replace 'Java Architecture for XML Binding|JAXB, Java API for JSON Binding|JSON-B, Java API for XML-Based Web Services|JAX-WS' references in java doc with corresponding Jakarta EE ones

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/wsconsume.adoc, after:

[[wsconsume]]
= wsconsume

_wsconsume_ is a command line tool and ant task that "consumes" the
abstract contract (WSDL file) and produces portable Jakarta XML Web Services and
client artifacts.

[[command-line-tool]]
== Command Line Tool

The command line tool has the following usage:

....
usage: wsconsume [options] <wsdl-url>
options:
  -h, --help                  Show this help message
  -b, --binding=<file>        One or more Jakarta XML Web Services or Jakarta XML Binding binding files
  -k, --keep                  Keep/Generate Java source
  -c  --catalog=<file>        Oasis XML Catalog file for entity resolution
  -j  --clientjar=<name>      Create a jar file of the generated artifacts for calling the webservice
  -p  --package=<name>        The target package for generated source
  -w  --wsdlLocation=<loc>    Value to use for @WebServiceClient.wsdlLocation
  -o, --output=<directory>    The directory to put generated artifacts
  -s, --source=<directory>    The directory to put Java source
  -t, --target=<2.0|2.1|2.2>  The Jakarta XML Web Services specification target
  -q, --quiet                 Be somewhat more quiet
  -v, --verbose               Show full exception stack traces
  -l, --load-consumer         Load the consumer and exit (debug utility)
  -e, --extension             Enable SOAP 1.2 binding extension
  -a, --additionalHeaders     Enables processing of implicit SOAP headers
  -n, --nocompile             Do not compile generated sources
....

[IMPORTANT]

The wsdlLocation is used when creating the Service to be used by clients
and will be added to the @WebServiceClient annotation, for an endpoint
implementation based on the generated service endpoint interface you
will need to manually add the wsdlLocation to the @WebService annotation
on your web service implementation and not the service endpoint
interface.

[[examples-wsconsume]]
=== Examples

Generate artifacts in Java class form only:

....
wsconsume Example.wsdl
....

Generate source and class files:

....
wsconsume -k Example.wsdl
....

Generate source and class files in a custom directory:

....
wsconsume -k -o custom Example.wsdl
....

Generate source and class files in the org.foo package:

....
wsconsume -k -p org.foo Example.wsdl
....

Generate source and class files using multiple binding files:

....
wsconsume -k -b wsdl-binding.xml -b schema1-binding.xml -b schema2-binding.xml
....

[[maven-plugin-wsconsume]]
== Maven Plugin

The wsconsume tools is included in the
*org.jboss.ws.plugins:jaxws-tools-maven-plugin* plugin. The plugin has
two goals for running the tool, _wsconsume_ and _wsconsume-test_, which
basically do the same during different maven build phases (the former
triggers the sources generation during _generate-sources_ phase, the
latter during the _generate-test-sources_ one).

The _wsconsume_ plugin has the following parameters:

[cols=",,",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description |Default

|bindingFiles |Jakarta XML Web Services or Jakarta XML Binding binding file |true

|classpathElements |Each classpathElement provides alibrary file to be
added to classpath
|$\{project.compileClasspathElements}or$\{project.testClasspathElements}

|catalog |Oasis XML Catalog file for entity resolution |none

|targetPackage |The target Java package for generated code. |generated

|bindingFiles |One or more Jakarta XML Web Services or Jakarta XML Binding binding file |none

|wsdlLocation |Value to use for @WebServiceClient.wsdlLocation
|generated

|outputDirectory |The output directory for generated artifacts.
|$\{project.build.outputDirectory}or$\{project.build.testOutputDirectory}

|sourceDirectory |The output directory for Java source.
|$\{project.build.directory}/wsconsume/java

|verbose |Enables more informational output about command progress.
|false

|wsdls |The WSDL files or URLs to consume |n/a

|extension |Enable SOAP 1.2 binding extension. |false

|encoding |The charset encoding to use for generated sources.
|$\{project.build.sourceEncoding}

|argLine |An optional additional argline to be used when running in fork
mode;can be used to set endorse dir, enable debugging,
etc.Example<argLine>-Djava.endorsed.dirs=...</argLine> |none

|fork |Whether or not to run the generation task in a separate VM.
|false

|target |A preference for the Jakarta XML Web Services specification target |Depends on
the underlying stack and endorsed dirs if any
|=======================================================================

[[examples-wsconsume-1]]
=== Examples

You can use _wsconsume_ in your own project build simply referencing the
_jaxws-tools-maven-plugin_ in the configured plugins in your pom.xml
file.

The following example makes the plugin consume the test.wsdl file and
generate SEI and wrappers' java sources. The generated sources are then
compiled together with the other project classes.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<build>
  <plugins>
    <plugin>
      <groupId>org.jboss.ws.plugins</groupId>
      <artifactId>jaxws-tools-maven-plugin</artifactId>
      <version>1.2.0.Beta1</version>
      <configuration>
        <wsdls>
          <wsdl>${basedir}/test.wsdl</wsdl>
        </wsdls>
      </configuration>
      <executions>
        <execution>
          <goals>
            <goal>wsconsume</goal>
          </goals>
        </execution>
      </executions>
    </plugin>
  </plugins>
</build>
----

You can also specify multiple wsdl files, as well as force the target
package, enable SOAP 1.2 binding and turn the tool's verbose mode on:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<build>
  <plugins>
    <plugin>
      <groupId>org.jboss.ws.plugins</groupId>
      <artifactId>jaxws-tools-maven-plugin</artifactId>
      <version>1.2.0.Beta1</version>
      <configuration>
       <wsdls>
        <wsdl>${basedir}/test.wsdl</wsdl>
        <wsdl>${basedir}/test2.wsdl</wsdl>
       </wsdls>
       <targetPackage>foo.bar</targetPackage>
       <extension>true</extension>
       <verbose>true</verbose>
      </configuration>
      <executions>
        <execution>
          <goals>
            <goal>wsconsume</goal>
          </goals>
        </execution>
      </executions>
    </plugin>
  </plugins>
</build>
----

Finally, if the wsconsume invocation is required for consuming a wsdl to
be used in your testsuite only, you might want to use the
_wsconsume-test_ goal as follows:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<build>
  <plugins>
    <plugin>
      <groupId>org.jboss.ws.plugins</groupId>
      <artifactId>jaxws-tools-maven-plugin</artifactId>
      <version>1.2.0.Beta1</version>
      <configuration>
        <wsdls>
          <wsdl>${basedir}/test.wsdl</wsdl>
        </wsdls>
      </configuration>
      <executions>
        <execution>
          <goals>
            <goal>wsconsume-test</goal>
          </goals>
        </execution>
      </executions>
    </plugin>
  </plugins>
</build>
----

Plugin stack dependencyThe plugin itself does not have an explicit
dependency to a JBossWS stack, as it's meant for being used with
implementations of any supported version of the _JBossWS SPI_. So the
user is expected to set a dependency in his own `pom.xml` to the desired
_JBossWS_ stack version. The plugin will rely on the that for using the
proper tooling.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.jboss.ws.cxf</groupId>
    <artifactId>jbossws-cxf-client</artifactId>
    <version>4.0.0.GA</version>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
----

[TIP]

Be careful when using this plugin with the Maven War Plugin as that
include any project dependency into the generated application war
archive. You might want to set `<scope>provided</scope>` for the
_JBossWS_ stack dependency to avoid that.

[IMPORTANT]

Up to version 1.1.2.Final, the _artifactId_ of the plugin was
*maven-jaxws-tools-plugin*.

[[ant-task-wsconsume]]
== Ant Task

The _wsconsume_ Ant task ( _org.jboss.ws.tools.ant.WSConsumeTask_) has
the following attributes:

[cols=",,",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description |Default

|fork |Whether or not to run the generation task in a separate VM. |true

|keep |Keep/Enable Java source code generation. |false

|catalog |Oasis XML Catalog file for entity resolution |none

|package |The target Java package for generated code. |generated

|binding |A Jakarta XML Web Services or Jakarta XML Binding binding file |none

|wsdlLocation |Value to use for @WebServiceClient.wsdlLocation
|generated

|encoding |The charset encoding to use for generated sources |n/a

|destdir |The output directory for generated artifacts. |"output"

|sourcedestdir |The output directory for Java source. |value of destdir

|target |The Jakarta XML Web Services specification target. Allowed values are 2.0, 2.1
and 2.2 | 

|verbose |Enables more informational output about command progress.
|false

|wsdl |The WSDL file or URL |n/a

|extension |Enable SOAP 1.2 binding extension. |false

|additionalHeaders |Enables processing of implicit SOAP headers |false
|=======================================================================

[NOTE]

Users also need to put streamBuffer.jar and stax-ex.jar to the classpath
of the ant task to generate the appropriate artefacts.

[NOTE]

The wsdlLocation is used when creating the Service to be used by clients
and will be added to the @WebServiceClient annotation, for an endpoint
implementation based on the generated service endpoint interface you
will need to manually add the wsdlLocation to the @WebService annotation
on your web service implementation and not the service endpoint
interface.

Also, the following nested elements are supported:

[cols=",,",options="header"]
|=================================================
|Element |Description |Default
|binding |A Jakarta XML Web Services or Jakarta XML Binding binding file |none
|jvmarg |Allows setting of custom jvm arguments | 
|=================================================

[[examples-wsconsume-2]]
=== Examples

Generate Jakarta XML Web Services source and classes in a separate JVM with separate
directories, a custom wsdl location attribute, and a list of binding
files from foo.wsdl:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<wsconsume
  fork="true"
  verbose="true"
  destdir="output"
  sourcedestdir="gen-src"
  keep="true"
  wsdllocation="handEdited.wsdl"
  wsdl="foo.wsdl">
  <binding dir="binding-files" includes="*.xml" excludes="bad.xml"/>
</wsconsume>
----
