docs/src/main/asciidoc/_admin-guide/subsystem-configuration/Jakarta_Batch.adoc, before:

[[Jakarta_Batch]]
= Jakarta Batch Subsystem Configuration

[abstract]

The batch subsystem is used to configure an environment for running
batch applications. http://wildfly.org[WildFly] uses
https://github.com/jberet/jsr352[JBeret] for it's batch implementation.
Specific information about JBeret can be found in the
http://jberet.gitbooks.io/jberet-user-guide/content/[user guide]. The
resource path, in <<CLI_Recipes,CLI notation>>, for the subsystem
is `subsystem=batch-jberet`.

[[default-subsystem-configuration]]
== Default Subsystem Configuration

For up to date information about subsystem configuration options see the
link:wildscribe[WildFly model reference^].

[[security]]
== Security

A new `security-domain` attribute was added to the `batch-jberet`
subsystem to allow batch jobs to be executed under that security domain.
Jobs that are stopped as part of a `suspend` operation will be restarted
on execution of a `resume` with the original user that started job.

There was a
`org.wildfly.extension.batch.jberet.deployment.BatchPermission` added to
allow a security restraint to various batch functions. The following
functions can be controlled with this permission.

* start
* stop
* restart
* abandon
* read

The read function allows users to use the getter methods from the
`javax.batch.operations.JobOperator` or read the `batch-jberet`
deployment resource, for example
`/deployment=my.war/subsystem=batch-jberet:read-resource`.

[[deployment-descriptors]]
== Deployment Descriptors

There are no deployment descriptors for configuring a batch environment
defined by the https://www.jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=352[JSR-352
specification]. In http://wildfly.org[WildFly] you can use a
`jboss-all.xml` deployment descriptor to define aspects of the batch
environment for your deployment.

In the `jboss-all.xml` deployment descriptor you can define a named job
repository, a new job repository and/or a named thread pool. A named job
repository and named thread pool are resources defined on the batch
subsystem. Only a named thread pool is allowed to be defined in the
deployment descriptor.

.Example Named Job Repository and Thread Pool

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<jboss xmlns="urn:jboss:1.0">
    <batch xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:batch-jberet:2.0">
      <job-repository>
        <named name="batch-ds"/>
      </job-repository>
      <thread-pool name="deployment-thread-pool"/>
    </batch>
</jboss>
----

.Example new Job Repository

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<jboss xmlns="urn:jboss:1.0">
    <batch xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:batch-jberet:2.0">
        <job-repository>
            <jdbc data-source="batch-ds"/>
        </job-repository>
    </batch>
</jboss>
----

[[deployment-resources]]
== Deployment Resources

Some subsystems in http://wildfly.org[WildFly] register runtime
resources for deployments. The batch subsystem registers jobs and
executions. The jobs are registered using the job name, this is _not_
the job XML name. Executions are registered using the execution id.

.Batch application in a standalone server

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /deployment=batch-jdbc-chunk.war/subsystem=batch-jberet:read-resource(recursive=true,include-runtime=true)
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => {"job" => {
        "reader-3" => {
            "instance-count" => 1,
            "running-executions" => 0,
            "execution" => {"1" => {
                "batch-status" => "COMPLETED",
                "create-time" => "2015-08-07T15:37:06.416-0700",
                "end-time" => "2015-08-07T15:37:06.519-0700",
                "exit-status" => "COMPLETED",
                "instance-id" => 1L,
                "last-updated-time" => "2015-08-07T15:37:06.519-0700",
                "start-time" => "2015-08-07T15:37:06.425-0700"
            }}
        },
        "reader-5" => {
            "instance-count" => 0,
            "running-executions" => 0,
            "execution" => undefined
        }
    }}
}
----

The batch subsystem resource on a deployment also has 3 operations to
interact with batch jobs on the selected deployment. There is a
`start-job`, `stop-job` and `restart-job` operation. The `execution`
resource also has a `stop-job` and `restart-job` operation.

.Example start-job

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /deployment=batch-chunk.war/subsystem=batch-jberet:start-job(job-xml-name=simple, properties={writer.sleep=5000})
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => 1L
}
----

.Example stop-job

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /deployment=batch-chunk.war/subsystem=batch-jberet:stop-job(execution-id=2)
----

.Example restart-job

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /deployment=batch-chunk.war/subsystem=batch-jberet:restart-job(execution-id=2)
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => 3L
}
----

.Result of resource after the 3 executions

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /deployment=batch-chunk.war/subsystem=batch-jberet:read-resource(recursive=true, include-runtime=true)
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => {"job" => {"chunkPartition" => {
        "instance-count" => 2,
        "running-executions" => 0,
        "execution" => {
            "1" => {
                "batch-status" => "COMPLETED",
                "create-time" => "2015-08-07T15:41:55.504-0700",
                "end-time" => "2015-08-07T15:42:15.513-0700",
                "exit-status" => "COMPLETED",
                "instance-id" => 1L,
                "last-updated-time" => "2015-08-07T15:42:15.513-0700",
                "start-time" => "2015-08-07T15:41:55.504-0700"
            },
            "2" => {
                "batch-status" => "STOPPED",
                "create-time" => "2015-08-07T15:44:39.879-0700",
                "end-time" => "2015-08-07T15:44:54.882-0700",
                "exit-status" => "STOPPED",
                "instance-id" => 2L,
                "last-updated-time" => "2015-08-07T15:44:54.882-0700",
                "start-time" => "2015-08-07T15:44:39.879-0700"
            },
            "3" => {
                "batch-status" => "COMPLETED",
                "create-time" => "2015-08-07T15:45:48.162-0700",
                "end-time" => "2015-08-07T15:45:53.165-0700",
                "exit-status" => "COMPLETED",
                "instance-id" => 2L,
                "last-updated-time" => "2015-08-07T15:45:53.165-0700",
                "start-time" => "2015-08-07T15:45:48.163-0700"
            }
        }
    }}}
}
----

Pro Tip

[TIP]

You can filter jobs by an attribute on the execution resource with the
`query` operation.

.View all stopped jobs

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
/deployment=batch-chunk.war/subsystem=batch-jberet/job=*/execution=*:query(where=["batch-status", "STOPPED"])
----

As with all operations you can see details about the operation using the
`:read-operation-description` operation.

Tab completion

[TIP]

Don't forget that CLI has tab completion which will complete operations
and attributes (arguments) on operations.

.Example start-job operation description

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /deployment=batch-chunk.war/subsystem=batch-jberet:read-operation-description(name=start-job)
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => {
        "operation-name" => "start-job",
        "description" => "Starts a batch job.",
        "request-properties" => {
            "job-xml-name" => {
                "type" => STRING,
                "description" => "The name of the job XML file to use when starting the job.",
                "expressions-allowed" => false,
                "required" => true,
                "nillable" => false,
                "min-length" => 1L,
                "max-length" => 2147483647L
            },
            "properties" => {
                "type" => OBJECT,
                "description" => "Optional properties to use when starting the batch job.",
                "expressions-allowed" => false,
                "required" => false,
                "nillable" => true,
                "value-type" => STRING
            }
        },
        "reply-properties" => {"type" => LONG},
        "read-only" => false,
        "runtime-only" => true
    }
}
----

Commit message:

WFLY-14619 Stop batch job execution from a different node

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_admin-guide/subsystem-configuration/Jakarta_Batch.adoc, after:

[[Jakarta_Batch]]
= Jakarta Batch Subsystem Configuration

[abstract]

The batch subsystem is used to configure an environment for running
batch applications. http://wildfly.org[WildFly] uses
https://github.com/jberet/jsr352[JBeret] for it's batch implementation.
Specific information about JBeret can be found in the
http://jberet.gitbooks.io/jberet-user-guide/content/[user guide]. The
resource path, in <<CLI_Recipes,CLI notation>>, for the subsystem
is `subsystem=batch-jberet`.

[[default-subsystem-configuration]]
== Default Subsystem Configuration

For up to date information about subsystem configuration options see the
link:wildscribe[WildFly model reference^].

[[security]]
== Security

A new `security-domain` attribute was added to the `batch-jberet`
subsystem to allow batch jobs to be executed under that security domain.
Jobs that are stopped as part of a `suspend` operation will be restarted
on execution of a `resume` with the original user that started job.

There was a
`org.wildfly.extension.batch.jberet.deployment.BatchPermission` added to
allow a security restraint to various batch functions. The following
functions can be controlled with this permission.

* start
* stop
* restart
* abandon
* read

The read function allows users to use the getter methods from the
`javax.batch.operations.JobOperator` or read the `batch-jberet`
deployment resource, for example
`/deployment=my.war/subsystem=batch-jberet:read-resource`.

[[job-repository]]
== Job Repository

The batch subsystem supports 2 types of job repository:

* in-memory job repository: all job execution data are kept in the memory
of WildFly instance. When the server shuts down, all job execution data
are lost. In a clustered environment, each WildFly server instance has its
own in-memory job repository, and it is not possible to share job execution
data between WildFly instances. This is the default job repository in
batch subsystem.

* jdbc job repository: all job execution data are saved in a relational
database accessed via jdbc. In a clustered environment, a jdbc job repository
can be used to share job execution data between WildFly instances.
For example, one may start a job execution in one instance, stop and restart
it from a different WildFly instance.

[[deployment-descriptors]]
== Deployment Descriptors

There are no deployment descriptors for configuring a batch environment
defined by the https://www.jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=352[JSR-352
specification]. In http://wildfly.org[WildFly] you can use a
`jboss-all.xml` deployment descriptor to define aspects of the batch
environment for your deployment.

In the `jboss-all.xml` deployment descriptor you can define a named job
repository, a new job repository and/or a named thread pool. A named job
repository and named thread pool are resources defined on the batch
subsystem. Only a named thread pool is allowed to be defined in the
deployment descriptor.

.Example Named Job Repository and Thread Pool

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<jboss xmlns="urn:jboss:1.0">
    <batch xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:batch-jberet:2.0">
      <job-repository>
        <named name="batch-ds"/>
      </job-repository>
      <thread-pool name="deployment-thread-pool"/>
    </batch>
</jboss>
----

.Example new Job Repository

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<jboss xmlns="urn:jboss:1.0">
    <batch xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:batch-jberet:2.0">
        <job-repository>
            <jdbc data-source="batch-ds"/>
        </job-repository>
    </batch>
</jboss>
----

[[deployment-resources]]
== Deployment Resources

Some subsystems in http://wildfly.org[WildFly] register runtime
resources for deployments. The batch subsystem registers jobs and
executions. The jobs are registered using the job name, this is _not_
the job XML name. Executions are registered using the execution id.

.Batch application in a standalone server

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /deployment=batch-jdbc-chunk.war/subsystem=batch-jberet:read-resource(recursive=true,include-runtime=true)
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => {"job" => {
        "reader-3" => {
            "instance-count" => 1,
            "running-executions" => 0,
            "execution" => {"1" => {
                "batch-status" => "COMPLETED",
                "create-time" => "2015-08-07T15:37:06.416-0700",
                "end-time" => "2015-08-07T15:37:06.519-0700",
                "exit-status" => "COMPLETED",
                "instance-id" => 1L,
                "last-updated-time" => "2015-08-07T15:37:06.519-0700",
                "start-time" => "2015-08-07T15:37:06.425-0700"
            }}
        },
        "reader-5" => {
            "instance-count" => 0,
            "running-executions" => 0,
            "execution" => undefined
        }
    }}
}
----

The batch subsystem resource on a deployment also has 3 operations to
interact with batch jobs on the selected deployment. There is a
`start-job`, `stop-job` and `restart-job` operation. The `execution`
resource also has a `stop-job` and `restart-job` operation.

.Example start-job

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /deployment=batch-chunk.war/subsystem=batch-jberet:start-job(job-xml-name=simple, properties={writer.sleep=5000})
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => 1L
}
----

.Example stop-job

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /deployment=batch-chunk.war/subsystem=batch-jberet:stop-job(execution-id=2)
----

.Example restart-job

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /deployment=batch-chunk.war/subsystem=batch-jberet:restart-job(execution-id=2)
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => 3L
}
----

.Result of resource after the 3 executions

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /deployment=batch-chunk.war/subsystem=batch-jberet:read-resource(recursive=true, include-runtime=true)
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => {"job" => {"chunkPartition" => {
        "instance-count" => 2,
        "running-executions" => 0,
        "execution" => {
            "1" => {
                "batch-status" => "COMPLETED",
                "create-time" => "2015-08-07T15:41:55.504-0700",
                "end-time" => "2015-08-07T15:42:15.513-0700",
                "exit-status" => "COMPLETED",
                "instance-id" => 1L,
                "last-updated-time" => "2015-08-07T15:42:15.513-0700",
                "start-time" => "2015-08-07T15:41:55.504-0700"
            },
            "2" => {
                "batch-status" => "STOPPED",
                "create-time" => "2015-08-07T15:44:39.879-0700",
                "end-time" => "2015-08-07T15:44:54.882-0700",
                "exit-status" => "STOPPED",
                "instance-id" => 2L,
                "last-updated-time" => "2015-08-07T15:44:54.882-0700",
                "start-time" => "2015-08-07T15:44:39.879-0700"
            },
            "3" => {
                "batch-status" => "COMPLETED",
                "create-time" => "2015-08-07T15:45:48.162-0700",
                "end-time" => "2015-08-07T15:45:53.165-0700",
                "exit-status" => "COMPLETED",
                "instance-id" => 2L,
                "last-updated-time" => "2015-08-07T15:45:53.165-0700",
                "start-time" => "2015-08-07T15:45:48.163-0700"
            }
        }
    }}}
}
----

Pro Tip

[TIP]

You can filter jobs by an attribute on the execution resource with the
`query` operation.

.View all stopped jobs

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
/deployment=batch-chunk.war/subsystem=batch-jberet/job=*/execution=*:query(where=["batch-status", "STOPPED"])
----

As with all operations you can see details about the operation using the
`:read-operation-description` operation.

Tab completion

[TIP]

Don't forget that CLI has tab completion which will complete operations
and attributes (arguments) on operations.

.Example start-job operation description

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /deployment=batch-chunk.war/subsystem=batch-jberet:read-operation-description(name=start-job)
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => {
        "operation-name" => "start-job",
        "description" => "Starts a batch job.",
        "request-properties" => {
            "job-xml-name" => {
                "type" => STRING,
                "description" => "The name of the job XML file to use when starting the job.",
                "expressions-allowed" => false,
                "required" => true,
                "nillable" => false,
                "min-length" => 1L,
                "max-length" => 2147483647L
            },
            "properties" => {
                "type" => OBJECT,
                "description" => "Optional properties to use when starting the batch job.",
                "expressions-allowed" => false,
                "required" => false,
                "nillable" => true,
                "value-type" => STRING
            }
        },
        "reply-properties" => {"type" => LONG},
        "read-only" => false,
        "runtime-only" => true
    }
}
----
