docs/src/main/asciidoc/_admin-guide/subsystem-configuration/JAXRS.adoc, before:

[[Undertow]]
= JAXRS subsystem configuration

****

The jaxrs subsystem presents RESTful facilities as defined by the Jakarta RESTful Web Services
project (https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j.jaxrs) and implemented
by the RESTEasy project (https://resteasy.github.io). 

jaxrs is a key facility and is implemented in the usual out of the box wildfly profiles, such as
standalone.xml, standalone-full.xml, etc.

*Required extension:*

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<extension module="org.jboss.as.jaxrs"/>
----

*Basic subsystem configuration example:*

jaxrs ships as an empty xml element:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:jaxrs:2.0"/>
----
but it can be expanded to configure parameters described in Section 3.4 "Configuration switches"
of the RESTEasy User Guide (https://resteasy.github.io/docs.html). For example:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]

<subsystem xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:jaxrs:2.0">
    <resteasy-add-charset>true</resteasy-add-charset>
    <resteasy-gzip-max-input>17</resteasy-gzip-max-input>
    <resteasy-jndi-resources>
       <jndi>java:global/jaxrsnoap/EJB_Resource1</jndi>
       <jndi>java:global/jaxrsnoap/EJB_Resource2</jndi>
    </resteasy-jndi-resources>
    <resteasy-language-mapping>
        <entry key="es">es</entry>
        <entry key="fr">fr</entry>
        <entry key="en">en-US<entry>
    </resteasy-language-mapping>
    <resteasy-media-type-param-mapping>mt</resteasy-media-type-param-mapping>
    <resteasy-providers>
        <class>com.bluemonkey.reader</class>
        <class>com.bluemonkey.writer</class>
    </resteasy-providers>
</subsystem>

*Note.* The use of hyphens is a Wildfly convention. The hyphens are translated into periods before
the parameters are passed into RESTEasy so that they conform to the RESTEasy parameter names.

*Note.* 
A parameter value is of one of five types:

1. boolean
2. integer
3. string
4. list
5. map

Parameters "resteasy.disable.providers" and "resteasy.providers" are lists of classes, using the 
syntax shown in the example, and "resteasy-jndi-resources" is a list of JNDI names.
"resteasy-language-mappings" and "resteasy-media-type-mappings" are maps, using the syntax
shown in the example.

Things look a little different in the Command Line Interface. For example,

[source]
[standalone@localhost:9990 subsystem=jaxrs] :list-add(name=resteasy-disable-providers, value=org.jboss.resteasy.plugin.providers.DefaultTextPlain)
{"outcome" => "success"}
[standalone@localhost:9990 subsystem=jaxrs] :list-add(name=resteasy-disable-providers, value=org.jboss.resteasy.plugin.providers.StringTextStar)
{"outcome" => "success"}
[standalone@localhost:9990 subsystem=jaxrs] :read-attribute(name=resteasy-disable-providers)
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => [
        "org.jboss.resteasy.plugin.providers.DefaultTextPlain",
        "org.jboss.resteasy.plugin.providers.StringTextStar"
    ]
}

or

[source]
[standalone@localhost:9990 subsystem=jaxrs] :map-put(name=resteasy-media-type-mappings, key=xml, value=application/xml)
{"outcome" => "success"}
[standalone@localhost:9990 subsystem=jaxrs] :map-put(name=resteasy-media-type-mappings, key=unusual, value=application/unusual)
{"outcome" => "success"}
[standalone@localhost:9990 subsystem=jaxrs] :read-attribute(name=resteasy-media-type-mappings)
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => {
        "xml" => "application/xml",
        "unusual" => "application/unusual"
    }
}

For a discussion of the various parameters, see the RESTEasy User Guide.

*Note.* One important thing to understand is that these parameters are global. That is, they
apply to all deployments.

*Note.* Another important fact is that once a parameter is set, by way of the CLI interface, for example,
that parameter and its value will be passed to subsequent deployments as web.xml context parameters. Existing 
deployments are not affected.

*Note.* Since there parameters are global, the classes referred in "resteasy.providers" and "resteasy.disable.providers"
must be available to all deployments. In practice, then, they are meant to enable
or disable RESTEasy providers. Note that they can be used in conjunction with
"resteasy-use-builtin-providers" to tailor a set of available providers.

Commit message:

[WFLY-14183] Add documentation about new WebApplicationException behavior in RESTEasy.

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_admin-guide/subsystem-configuration/JAXRS.adoc, after:

[[JAXRS]]
= JAXRS subsystem configuration

The jaxrs subsystem presents RESTful facilities as defined by the Jakarta RESTful Web Services
project (https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/ee4j.jaxrs) and implemented
by the RESTEasy project (https://resteasy.github.io). 

jaxrs is a key facility and is implemented in the usual out of the box wildfly profiles, such as
standalone.xml, standalone-full.xml, etc.

*Required extension:*

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<extension module="org.jboss.as.jaxrs"/>
----

*Basic subsystem configuration example:*

jaxrs ships as an empty xml element:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:jaxrs:2.0"/>
----
but it can be expanded to configure parameters described in Section 3.5 "Configuration switches"
of the RESTEasy User Guide (https://resteasy.github.io/docs). For example:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]

<subsystem xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:jaxrs:2.0">
    <resteasy-add-charset>true</resteasy-add-charset>
    <resteasy-gzip-max-input>17</resteasy-gzip-max-input>
    <resteasy-jndi-resources>
       <jndi>java:global/jaxrsnoap/EJB_Resource1</jndi>
       <jndi>java:global/jaxrsnoap/EJB_Resource2</jndi>
    </resteasy-jndi-resources>
    <resteasy-language-mapping>
        <entry key="es">es</entry>
        <entry key="fr">fr</entry>
        <entry key="en">en-US<entry>
    </resteasy-language-mapping>
    <resteasy-media-type-param-mapping>mt</resteasy-media-type-param-mapping>
    <resteasy-providers>
        <class>com.bluemonkey.reader</class>
        <class>com.bluemonkey.writer</class>
    </resteasy-providers>
</subsystem>

*Note.* The use of hyphens is a Wildfly convention. The hyphens are translated into periods before
the parameters are passed into RESTEasy so that they conform to the RESTEasy parameter names.

*Note.* 
A parameter value is of one of five types:

1. boolean
2. integer
3. string
4. list
5. map

Parameters "resteasy.disable.providers" and "resteasy.providers" are lists of classes, using the 
syntax shown in the example, and "resteasy-jndi-resources" is a list of JNDI names.
"resteasy-language-mappings" and "resteasy-media-type-mappings" are maps, using the syntax
shown in the example.

Things look a little different in the Command Line Interface. For example,

[source]
[standalone@localhost:9990 subsystem=jaxrs] :list-add(name=resteasy-disable-providers, value=org.jboss.resteasy.plugin.providers.DefaultTextPlain)
{"outcome" => "success"}
[standalone@localhost:9990 subsystem=jaxrs] :list-add(name=resteasy-disable-providers, value=org.jboss.resteasy.plugin.providers.StringTextStar)
{"outcome" => "success"}
[standalone@localhost:9990 subsystem=jaxrs] :read-attribute(name=resteasy-disable-providers)
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => [
        "org.jboss.resteasy.plugin.providers.DefaultTextPlain",
        "org.jboss.resteasy.plugin.providers.StringTextStar"
    ]
}

or

[source]
[standalone@localhost:9990 subsystem=jaxrs] :map-put(name=resteasy-media-type-mappings, key=xml, value=application/xml)
{"outcome" => "success"}
[standalone@localhost:9990 subsystem=jaxrs] :map-put(name=resteasy-media-type-mappings, key=unusual, value=application/unusual)
{"outcome" => "success"}
[standalone@localhost:9990 subsystem=jaxrs] :read-attribute(name=resteasy-media-type-mappings)
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => {
        "xml" => "application/xml",
        "unusual" => "application/unusual"
    }
}

For a discussion of the various parameters, see the RESTEasy User Guide.

*Note.* One important thing to understand is that these parameters are global. That is, they
apply to all deployments.

*Note.* Another important fact is that once a parameter is set, by way of the CLI interface, for example,
that parameter and its value will be passed to subsequent deployments as web.xml context parameters. Existing 
deployments are not affected.

*Note.* Since these parameters are global, the classes referred to in "resteasy.providers" and "resteasy.disable.providers"
must be available to all deployments. In practice, then, they are meant to enable
or disable RESTEasy providers. Note that they can be used in conjunction with
"resteasy-use-builtin-providers" to tailor a set of available providers.

*Note.* RESTEasy has introduced a new treatment of javax.ws.rs.WebApplicationExceptions thrown by a JAX-RS or
MicroProfile REST Client client running inside a JAX-RS resource, in which the embedded javax.ws.rs.core.Response is
"sanitized" before being returned to prevent the risk of information leaking from a third party. The original
behavior can be restored by setting the parameter "resteasy.original.webapplicationexception.behavior" to "true".
See the RESTEasy User Guide chapter "Resteasy WebApplicationExceptions" for more information.
