docs/src/main/asciidoc/_admin-guide/subsystem-configuration/JSF.adoc, before:

[[JSF]]
= JSF Configuration

[abstract]

JSF configuration is handled by the JSF subsystem. The JSF subsystem
allows multiple JSF implementations to be installed on the same WildFly
server. In particular, any version of Mojarra or MyFaces that implements
spec level 2.1 or higher can be installed. For each JSF implementation,
a new slot needs to be created under `com.sun.jsf-impl`,
`javax.faces.api`, and `org.jboss.as.jsf-injection`. When the JSF
subsystem starts up, it scans the module path to find all of the JSF
implementations that have been installed. The default JSF implementation
that WildFly should use is defined by the `default-jsf-impl-slot`
attribute.

[[installing-a-new-jsf-implementation-manually]]
== Installing a new JSF implementation manually

A new JSF implementation can be manually installed as follows:

[[add-a-module-slot-for-the-new-jsf-implementation-jar]]
=== Add a module slot for the new JSF implementation JAR

* Create the following directory structure under the
WILDFLY_HOME/modules directory: +
WILDFLY_HOME/modules/com/sun/jsf-impl/<JSF_IMPL_NAME>-<JSF_VERSION> +
 +
For example, for Mojarra 2.2.11, the above path would resolve to: +
WILDFLY_HOME/modules/com/sun/jsf-impl/mojarra-2.2.11

* Place the JSF implementation JAR in the <JSF_IMPL_NAME>-<JSF_VERSION>
subdirectory. In the same subdirectory, add a `module.xml` file similar
to the
https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly/blob/master/jsf/multi-jsf-installer/src/main/resources/mojarra-impl-module.xml[Mojarra]
or
https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly/blob/master/jsf/multi-jsf-installer/src/main/resources/myfaces-impl-module.xml[MyFaces]
template examples. Change the `resource-root-path` to the name of your
JSF implementation JAR and fill in appropriate values for $\{
`jsf-impl-name`} and $\{ `jsf-version`}.

[[add-a-module-slot-for-the-new-jsf-api-jar]]
=== Add a module slot for the new JSF API JAR

* Create the following directory structure under the
WILDFLY_HOME/modules directory: +
WILDFLY_HOME/modules/javax/faces/api/<JSF_IMPL_NAME>-<JSF_VERSION>

* Place the JSF API JAR in the <JSF_IMPL_NAME>-<JSF_VERSION>
subdirectory. In the same subdirectory, add a `module.xml` file similar
to the
https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly/blob/master/jsf/multi-jsf-installer/src/main/resources/mojarra-api-module.xml[Mojarra]
or
https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly/blob/master/jsf/multi-jsf-installer/src/main/resources/myfaces-api-module.xml[MyFaces]
template examples. Change the `resource-root-path` to the name of your
JSF API JAR and fill in appropriate values for $\{ `jsf-impl-name`} and
$\{ `jsf-version`}.

[[add-a-module-slot-for-the-jsf-injection-jar]]
=== Add a module slot for the JSF injection JAR

* Create the following directory structure under the
WILDFLY_HOME/modules directory: +
WILDFLY_HOME/modules/org/jboss/as/jsf-injection/<JSF_IMPL_NAME>-<JSF_VERSION>

* Copy the wildfly-jsf-injection JAR and the weld-core-jsf JAR from
WILDFLY_HOME/modules/system/layers/base/org/jboss/as/jsf-injection/main
to the <JSF_IMPL_NAME>-<JSF_VERSION> subdirectory.

* In the <JSF_IMPL_NAME>-<JSF_VERSION> subdirectory, add a `module.xml`
file similar to the
https://gist.github.com/fjuma/30160f0e95ade328253118c706339604[Mojarra]
or
https://gist.github.com/fjuma/f73b05c3864255e7b10b49f989f0b75e[MyFaces]
template examples and fill in appropriate values for $\{
`jsf-impl-name`}, $\{ `jsf-version`}, $\{ `version.jboss.as`}, and $\{
`version.weld.core`}. (These last two placeholders depend on the
versions of the wildfly-jsf-injection and weld-core-jsf JARs that were
copied over in the previous step.)

[[for-myfaces-only---add-a-module-for-the-commons-digester-jar]]
=== For MyFaces only - add a module for the commons-digester JAR

* Create the following directory structure under the
WILDFLY_HOME/modules directory: +
WILDFLY_HOME/modules/org/apache/commons/digester/main

* Place the
http://search.maven.org/remotecontent?filepath=commons-digester/commons-digester/1.8/commons-digester-1.8.jar[commons-digester]
JAR in WILDFLY_HOME/modules/org/apache/commons/digester/main. In the
`main` subdirectory, add a `module.xml` file similar to this
https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly/blob/master/jsf/multi-jsf-installer/src/main/resources/myfaces-digester-module.xml[template].
Fill in the appropriate value for $\{ `version.commons-digester`}.

[[start-the-server]]
=== Start the server

After starting the server, the following CLI command can be used to
verify that your new JSF implementation has been installed successfully.
The new JSF implementation should appear in the output of this command.

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /subsystem=jsf:list-active-jsf-impls()
----

[[changing-the-default-jsf-implementation]]
== Changing the default JSF implementation

The following CLI command can be used to make a newly installed JSF
implementation the default JSF implementation used by WildFly:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
/subsystem=jsf/:write-attribute(name=default-jsf-impl-slot,value=<JSF_IMPL_NAME>-<JSF_VERSION>)
----

A server restart will be required for this change to take effect.

[[configuring-a-jsf-app-to-use-a-non-default-jsf-implementation]]
== Configuring a JSF app to use a non-default JSF implementation

A JSF app can be configured to use an installed JSF implementation
that's not the default implementation by adding a
`org.jboss.jbossfaces.JSF_CONFIG_NAME` context parameter to its
`web.xml` file. For example, to indicate that a JSF app should use
MyFaces 2.2.12 (assuming MyFaces 2.2.12 has been installed on the
server), the following context parameter would need to be added:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<context-param>
  <param-name>org.jboss.jbossfaces.JSF_CONFIG_NAME</param-name>
  <param-value>myfaces-2.2.12</param-value>
</context-param>
----

If a JSF app does not specify this context parameter, the default JSF
implementation will be used for that app.

[[disallowing-doctype-declarations]]
== Disallowing DOCTYPE declarations

The following CLI commands can be used to disallow DOCTYPE declarations
in JSF deployments:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
/subsystem=jsf:write-attribute(name=disallow-doctype-decl, value=true)
reload
----

This setting can be overridden for a particular JSF deployment by
adding the `com.sun.faces.disallowDoctypeDecl` context parameter
to the deployment's `web.xml` file:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<context-param>
  <param-name>com.sun.faces.disallowDoctypeDecl</param-name>
  <param-value>false</param-value>
</context-param>
----

Commit message:

WFLY-14061 Replace Java EE references in java doc with corresponding Jakarta EE ones

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_admin-guide/subsystem-configuration/JSF.adoc, after:

[[Jakarta_Server_Faces]]
= Jakarta Server Faces Configuration

[abstract]

Jakarta Server Faces configuration is handled by the Jakarta Server Faces subsystem. The Jakarta Server Faces subsystem
allows multiple Jakarta Server Faces implementations to be installed on the same WildFly
server. In particular, any version of Mojarra or MyFaces that implements
spec level 2.1 or higher can be installed. For each Jakarta Server Faces implementation,
a new slot needs to be created under `com.sun.jsf-impl`,
`javax.faces.api`, and `org.jboss.as.jsf-injection`. When the Jakarta Server Faces
subsystem starts up, it scans the module path to find all of the Jakarta Server Faces
implementations that have been installed. The default Jakarta Server Faces implementation
that WildFly should use is defined by the `default-jsf-impl-slot`
attribute.

[[installing-a-new-jsf-implementation-manually]]
== Installing a new Jakarta Server Faces implementation manually

A new Jakarta Server Faces implementation can be manually installed as follows:

[[add-a-module-slot-for-the-new-jsf-implementation-jar]]
=== Add a module slot for the new Jakarta Server Faces implementation JAR

* Create the following directory structure under the
WILDFLY_HOME/modules directory: +
WILDFLY_HOME/modules/com/sun/jsf-impl/<JSF_IMPL_NAME>-<JSF_VERSION> +
 +
For example, for Mojarra 2.2.11, the above path would resolve to: +
WILDFLY_HOME/modules/com/sun/jsf-impl/mojarra-2.2.11

* Place the Jakarta Server Faces implementation JAR in the <JSF_IMPL_NAME>-<JSF_VERSION>
subdirectory. In the same subdirectory, add a `module.xml` file similar
to the
https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly/blob/master/jsf/multi-jsf-installer/src/main/resources/mojarra-impl-module.xml[Mojarra]
or
https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly/blob/master/jsf/multi-jsf-installer/src/main/resources/myfaces-impl-module.xml[MyFaces]
template examples. Change the `resource-root-path` to the name of your
Jakarta Server Faces implementation JAR and fill in appropriate values for $\{
`jsf-impl-name`} and $\{ `jsf-version`}.

[[add-a-module-slot-for-the-new-jsf-api-jar]]
=== Add a module slot for the new Jakarta Server Faces API JAR

* Create the following directory structure under the
WILDFLY_HOME/modules directory: +
WILDFLY_HOME/modules/javax/faces/api/<JSF_IMPL_NAME>-<JSF_VERSION>

* Place the JSF API JAR in the <JSF_IMPL_NAME>-<JSF_VERSION>
subdirectory. In the same subdirectory, add a `module.xml` file similar
to the
https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly/blob/master/jsf/multi-jsf-installer/src/main/resources/mojarra-api-module.xml[Mojarra]
or
https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly/blob/master/jsf/multi-jsf-installer/src/main/resources/myfaces-api-module.xml[MyFaces]
template examples. Change the `resource-root-path` to the name of your
Jakarta Server Faces API JAR and fill in appropriate values for $\{ `jsf-impl-name`} and
$\{ `jsf-version`}.

[[add-a-module-slot-for-the-jsf-injection-jar]]
=== Add a module slot for the Jakarta Server Faces injection JAR

* Create the following directory structure under the
WILDFLY_HOME/modules directory: +
WILDFLY_HOME/modules/org/jboss/as/jsf-injection/<JSF_IMPL_NAME>-<JSF_VERSION>

* Copy the wildfly-jsf-injection JAR and the weld-core-jsf JAR from
WILDFLY_HOME/modules/system/layers/base/org/jboss/as/jsf-injection/main
to the <JSF_IMPL_NAME>-<JSF_VERSION> subdirectory.

* In the <JSF_IMPL_NAME>-<JSF_VERSION> subdirectory, add a `module.xml`
file similar to the
https://gist.github.com/fjuma/30160f0e95ade328253118c706339604[Mojarra]
or
https://gist.github.com/fjuma/f73b05c3864255e7b10b49f989f0b75e[MyFaces]
template examples and fill in appropriate values for $\{
`jsf-impl-name`}, $\{ `jsf-version`}, $\{ `version.jboss.as`}, and $\{
`version.weld.core`}. (These last two placeholders depend on the
versions of the wildfly-jsf-injection and weld-core-jsf JARs that were
copied over in the previous step.)

[[for-myfaces-only---add-a-module-for-the-commons-digester-jar]]
=== For MyFaces only - add a module for the commons-digester JAR

* Create the following directory structure under the
WILDFLY_HOME/modules directory: +
WILDFLY_HOME/modules/org/apache/commons/digester/main

* Place the
http://search.maven.org/remotecontent?filepath=commons-digester/commons-digester/1.8/commons-digester-1.8.jar[commons-digester]
JAR in WILDFLY_HOME/modules/org/apache/commons/digester/main. In the
`main` subdirectory, add a `module.xml` file similar to this
https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly/blob/master/jsf/multi-jsf-installer/src/main/resources/myfaces-digester-module.xml[template].
Fill in the appropriate value for $\{ `version.commons-digester`}.

[[start-the-server]]
=== Start the server

After starting the server, the following CLI command can be used to
verify that your new Jakarta Server Faces implementation has been installed successfully.
The new Jakarta Server Faces implementation should appear in the output of this command.

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /subsystem=jsf:list-active-jsf-impls()
----

[[changing-the-default-jsf-implementation]]
== Changing the default Jakarta Server Faces implementation

The following CLI command can be used to make a newly installed Jakarta Server Faces
implementation the default Jakarta Server Faces implementation used by WildFly:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
/subsystem=jsf/:write-attribute(name=default-jsf-impl-slot,value=<JSF_IMPL_NAME>-<JSF_VERSION>)
----

A server restart will be required for this change to take effect.

[[configuring-a-jsf-app-to-use-a-non-default-jsf-implementation]]
== Configuring a Jakarta Server Faces app to use a non-default Jakarta Server Faces implementation

A Jakarta Server Faces app can be configured to use an installed Jakarta Server Faces implementation
that's not the default implementation by adding a
`org.jboss.jbossfaces.JSF_CONFIG_NAME` context parameter to its
`web.xml` file. For example, to indicate that a Jakarta Server Faces app should use
MyFaces 2.2.12 (assuming MyFaces 2.2.12 has been installed on the
server), the following context parameter would need to be added:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<context-param>
  <param-name>org.jboss.jbossfaces.JSF_CONFIG_NAME</param-name>
  <param-value>myfaces-2.2.12</param-value>
</context-param>
----

If a Jakarta Server Faces app does not specify this context parameter, the default Jakarta Server Faces
implementation will be used for that app.

[[disallowing-doctype-declarations]]
== Disallowing DOCTYPE declarations

The following CLI commands can be used to disallow DOCTYPE declarations
in Jakarta Server Faces deployments:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
/subsystem=jsf:write-attribute(name=disallow-doctype-decl, value=true)
reload
----

This setting can be overridden for a particular Jakarta Server Faces deployment by
adding the `com.sun.faces.disallowDoctypeDecl` context parameter
to the deployment's `web.xml` file:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<context-param>
  <param-name>com.sun.faces.disallowDoctypeDecl</param-name>
  <param-value>false</param-value>
</context-param>
----
