docs/src/main/asciidoc/_admin-guide/subsystem-configuration/MicroProfile_OpenTracing_SmallRye.adoc, before:

[[MicroProfile_OpenTracing_SmallRye]]
= MicroProfile OpenTracing Subsystem Configuration

Support for https://microprofile.io/project/eclipse/microprofile-opentracing[Eclipse MicroProfile OpenTracing] is
provided as a Tech Preview feature by the _microprofile-opentracing-smallrye_ subsystem.

[[required-extension-microprofile-opentracing-smallrye]]
== Required Extension

This extension is included in the standard configurations included in the WildFly distribution.

You can also add the extension to a configuration without it either by adding
an `<extension module="org.wildfly.extension.microprofile.opentracing-smallrye"/>`
element to the xml or by using the following CLI operation:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /extension=org.wildfly.extension.microprofile.opentracing-smallrye:add
{"outcome" => "success"}

[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /subsystem=microprofile-opentracing-smallrye:add
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "response-headers" => {
        "operation-requires-reload" => true,
        "process-state" => "reload-required"
    }
}
----

== Supported instrumentation libraries

WildFly's MicroProfile OpenTracing subsystem implements MicroProfile 1.3, which includes support for tracing JAX-RS and Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection.

Currently the subsystem allows the configuration of https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-client-java[Jaeger Java Client]. You can then specify which tracer to use in your deployment by specifying a `smallrye.opentracing.tracer.configuration` init-parameter in your deployment descriptor. If this value is wrong the deployment will fail.
You can also set the default tracer to be injected by using the `default-tracer` attribute on the subsystem configuration.

Additionally, applications being deployed are able to provide their own tracers via the
https://github.com/opentracing-contrib/java-tracerresolver[`TracerResolver`] facility. In that case, the default tracer will *not* be used.

For compatibility if no tracer is defined in the subsystem and no tracer can be resolved, then a Jaeger Tracer instance will be created from the environment variables.

== Configuring a Jaeger tracer

To add a new Jaeger tracer instance you can use the following CLI operation:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /subsystem=microprofile-opentracing-smallrye/jaeger-tracer=my-tracer:add()
{"outcome" => "success"}
----

Those are the configuration attributes:

    ** `propagation`: The supported trace context propagation formats:
        *** JAEGER: The default Jaeger trace context propagation format.
        *** B3: The Zipkin B3 trace context propagation format.
    ** `sampler-type`: The type of sampler to use in the tracer. Optional. Valid values: remote (default),ratelimiting, probabilistic, const.
    ** `sampler-param`: The floating point value that makes sense for the correct samplerType.
    ** `sampler-manager-host-port`: the port of the sampling manager that can provide sampling strategy to this service.
    ** `sender-binding`: The outbound socket binding to connecto the Agent.
    ** `sender-endpoint`: The endpoint, like https://jaeger-collector:14268/api/traces
    ** `sender-user`: The Basic Auth username to be added on Authorization headers for requests sent to the endpoint.
    ** `sender-auth-password`: The Basic Auth password to be added on Authorization headers for requests sent to the endpoint.
    ** `sender-auth-token`: The Auth Token to be added as "Bearer" on Authorization headers for requests sent to the endpoint.
    ** `reporter-log-spans`: Boolean to indicates whether the reporter should log the spans.
    ** `reporter-flush-interval`: The flush interval when reporting spans remotely in milliseconds.
    ** `reporter-max-queue-size`: The reporter's maximum queue size.
    ** `tracer_id_128bit`: Opt-in to use 128 bit traceIds. By default, uses 64 bits.
    ** `tracer-tags`: A comma separated list of name = value tracer level tags, which get added to all reported spans. The value can also refer to an environment variable using the format ${envVarName:default}, where the :default is optional, and identifies a value to be used if the environment variable cannot be found.

By default, the service name used with the Jaeger Client is derived from the deployment's name, which is usually the WAR file name.

As defined by the MicroProfile OpenTracing specification, Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection beans are traced if the annotation
`org.eclipse.microprofile.opentracing.Traced` is present, either at the type or method level. Tracing can be disabled
by setting the annotation's value to `false`. Similarly, a custom operation name can be set by specifying the parameter
`operationName` for that annotation. The semantics are ruled by the MicroProfile OpenTracing specification.

Note that Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection support for the deployment is required in order to activate the MicroProfile OpenTracing support. A simple
JAX-RS application with no Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection support will *not* be traced.

Managed beans with multiple facets, such as EJBs, can also be traced by annotating them with `@Traced`, but with
limitations. For instance, asynchronous invocations will yield a new trace, instead of having the span to join an
existing trace.

== Component Reference

The Eclipse MicroProfile OpenTracing is implemented by the SmallRye OpenTracing project.

****

* https://microprofile.io/project/eclipse/microprofile-opentracing[Eclipse MicroProfile OpenTracing]
* https://github.com/smallrye/smallrye-opentracing/[SmallRye OpenTracing]

****

Commit message:

WFLY-14327 Replace 'Java API for RESTful Web Services|JAX-RS, JavaServer Pages Standard Tag Library|JSTL, Java API for JSON Processing|JSON-P, Java API for XML-Based RPC|JAX-RPC' references in java doc with corresponding Jakarta EE ones

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_admin-guide/subsystem-configuration/MicroProfile_OpenTracing_SmallRye.adoc, after:

[[MicroProfile_OpenTracing_SmallRye]]
= MicroProfile OpenTracing Subsystem Configuration

Support for https://microprofile.io/project/eclipse/microprofile-opentracing[Eclipse MicroProfile OpenTracing] is
provided as a Tech Preview feature by the _microprofile-opentracing-smallrye_ subsystem.

[[required-extension-microprofile-opentracing-smallrye]]
== Required Extension

This extension is included in the standard configurations included in the WildFly distribution.

You can also add the extension to a configuration without it either by adding
an `<extension module="org.wildfly.extension.microprofile.opentracing-smallrye"/>`
element to the xml or by using the following CLI operation:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /extension=org.wildfly.extension.microprofile.opentracing-smallrye:add
{"outcome" => "success"}

[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /subsystem=microprofile-opentracing-smallrye:add
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "response-headers" => {
        "operation-requires-reload" => true,
        "process-state" => "reload-required"
    }
}
----

== Supported instrumentation libraries

WildFly's MicroProfile OpenTracing subsystem implements MicroProfile 1.3, which includes support for tracing Jakarta RESTful Web Services and Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection.

Currently the subsystem allows the configuration of https://github.com/jaegertracing/jaeger-client-java[Jaeger Java Client]. You can then specify which tracer to use in your deployment by specifying a `smallrye.opentracing.tracer.configuration` init-parameter in your deployment descriptor. If this value is wrong the deployment will fail.
You can also set the default tracer to be injected by using the `default-tracer` attribute on the subsystem configuration.

Additionally, applications being deployed are able to provide their own tracers via the
https://github.com/opentracing-contrib/java-tracerresolver[`TracerResolver`] facility. In that case, the default tracer will *not* be used.

For compatibility if no tracer is defined in the subsystem and no tracer can be resolved, then a Jaeger Tracer instance will be created from the environment variables.

== Configuring a Jaeger tracer

To add a new Jaeger tracer instance you can use the following CLI operation:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /subsystem=microprofile-opentracing-smallrye/jaeger-tracer=my-tracer:add()
{"outcome" => "success"}
----

Those are the configuration attributes:

    ** `propagation`: The supported trace context propagation formats:
        *** JAEGER: The default Jaeger trace context propagation format.
        *** B3: The Zipkin B3 trace context propagation format.
    ** `sampler-type`: The type of sampler to use in the tracer. Optional. Valid values: remote (default),ratelimiting, probabilistic, const.
    ** `sampler-param`: The floating point value that makes sense for the correct samplerType.
    ** `sampler-manager-host-port`: the port of the sampling manager that can provide sampling strategy to this service.
    ** `sender-binding`: The outbound socket binding to connecto the Agent.
    ** `sender-endpoint`: The endpoint, like https://jaeger-collector:14268/api/traces
    ** `sender-user`: The Basic Auth username to be added on Authorization headers for requests sent to the endpoint.
    ** `sender-auth-password`: The Basic Auth password to be added on Authorization headers for requests sent to the endpoint.
    ** `sender-auth-token`: The Auth Token to be added as "Bearer" on Authorization headers for requests sent to the endpoint.
    ** `reporter-log-spans`: Boolean to indicates whether the reporter should log the spans.
    ** `reporter-flush-interval`: The flush interval when reporting spans remotely in milliseconds.
    ** `reporter-max-queue-size`: The reporter's maximum queue size.
    ** `tracer_id_128bit`: Opt-in to use 128 bit traceIds. By default, uses 64 bits.
    ** `tracer-tags`: A comma separated list of name = value tracer level tags, which get added to all reported spans. The value can also refer to an environment variable using the format ${envVarName:default}, where the :default is optional, and identifies a value to be used if the environment variable cannot be found.

By default, the service name used with the Jaeger Client is derived from the deployment's name, which is usually the WAR file name.

As defined by the MicroProfile OpenTracing specification, Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection beans are traced if the annotation
`org.eclipse.microprofile.opentracing.Traced` is present, either at the type or method level. Tracing can be disabled
by setting the annotation's value to `false`. Similarly, a custom operation name can be set by specifying the parameter
`operationName` for that annotation. The semantics are ruled by the MicroProfile OpenTracing specification.

Note that Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection support for the deployment is required in order to activate the MicroProfile OpenTracing support. A simple
Jakarta RESTful Web Services application with no Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection support will *not* be traced.

Managed beans with multiple facets, such as EJBs, can also be traced by annotating them with `@Traced`, but with
limitations. For instance, asynchronous invocations will yield a new trace, instead of having the span to join an
existing trace.

== Component Reference

The Eclipse MicroProfile OpenTracing is implemented by the SmallRye OpenTracing project.

****

* https://microprofile.io/project/eclipse/microprofile-opentracing[Eclipse MicroProfile OpenTracing]
* https://github.com/smallrye/smallrye-opentracing/[SmallRye OpenTracing]

****
