docs/src/main/asciidoc/_admin-guide/subsystem-configuration/MicroProfile_Config_SmallRye.adoc, before:

[[MicroProfile_Config_SmallRye]]
= MicroProfile Config Subsystem Configuration

Support for https://microprofile.io/project/eclipse/microprofile-config[Eclipse MicroProfile Config] is provided by
 the _microprofile-config-smallrye_ subsystem.

[[required-extension-microprofile-config-smallrye]]
== Required Extension

This extension is included in the standard configurations included in the
WildFly distribution.

You can also add the extension to a configuration without it either by adding
an `<extension module="org.wildfly.extension.microprofile.config-smallrye"/>`
element to the xml or by using the following CLI operation:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /extension=org.wildfly.extension.microprofile.config-smallrye:add
----

== Supported ConfigSources

In addition to the default `ConfigSources` specified by the MicroProfile Config specification
(environment variables, System properties and `META-INF/microprofile-config.properties` file), the
`microprofile-config-smallrye` provides additional types of `ConfigSource`

=== ConfigSource from Properties

You can store properties directly in a `config-source` in the subsystem by using the `properties`
attribute when you add the `config-source`:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
/subsystem=microprofile-config-smallrye/config-source=props:add(properties={"prop1" = "foo", "prop2" = "bar"})
----

This results in the XML configuration:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:wildfly:microprofile-config-smallrye:1.0">
    <config-source name="props">
        <property name="prop1" value="foo"/>
        <property name="prop2" value="bar"/>
    </config-source>
</subsystem>
----

=== ConfigSource from Directory

You can also read properties from a directory where each file is the name of
a property and the file content is the value of the property.

For example, let's imagine that the directory `/etc/config/numbers-app/` contains 2 files:

 * the `num.size` file contains the value `5`
 * the `num.max` file contains the value `100`

We can create a config-source` to access these properties by using the operation:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
/subsystem=microprofile-config-smallrye/config-source=file-props:add(dir={path=/etc/config/numbers-app})
----

This results in the XML configuration:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:wildfly:microprofile-config-smallrye:1.0">
    <config-source name="file-props">
        <dir path="/etc/config/numbers-app"/>
    </config-source>
</subsystem>
----

With that configuration, any application deployed in WildFly can use the `num.size` and
`num.max` properties that are stored in the directory:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
@Inject
@ConfigProperty(name = "num.size")
int numSize; // <1>

@Inject
@ConfigProperty(name = "num.max")
int numMax; // <2>
----
<1> will be set to 5
<2> will be set to 100

[NOTE]
This corresponds to the layout used by https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/3.2/dev_guide/configmaps.html[OpenShift ConfigMaps].
The `dir` value corresponds to the `mountPath` in the ConfigMap definition in OpenShift or Kubernetes.

=== ConfigSource from Class

You can create a specific type of `ConfigSource` implementation by creating a `config-source` resource
with a `class` attribute.

For example, you can provide an implementation of `org.eclipse.microprofile.config.spi.ConfigSource`
that is named `org.example.MyConfigSource` and provided by a JBoss module named `org.example`:

----
/subsystem=microprofile-config-smallrye/config-source=my-config-source:add(class={name=org.example.MyConfigSource, module=org.example})
----

This results in the XML configuration:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:wildfly:microprofile-config-smallrye:1.0">
    <config-source name="my-config-source">
        <class name="org.example.MyConfigSource" module="org.example"/>
    </config-source>
</subsystem>
----

All properties from this `ConfigSource` will be available to any WildFly deployment.

=== ConfigSourceProvider from Class

You can create a specific type of `ConfigSourceProvider` implementation by creating a `config-source-provider` resource
with a `class` attribute.

For example, you can provide an implementation of `org.eclipse.microprofile.config.spi.ConfigSourceProvider`
that is named `org.example.MyConfigSourceProvider` and provided by a JBoss module named `org.example`:

----
/subsystem=microprofile-config-smallrye/config-source-provider=my-config-source-provider:add(class={name=org.example.MyConfigSourceProvider, module=org.example})
----

This results in the XML configuration:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:wildfly:microprofile-config-smallrye:1.0">
    <config-source-provider name="my-config-source-provider">
         <class name="org.example.MyConfigSourceProvider" module="org.example"/>
    </config-source-provider>
</subsystem>
----

All properties from the `ConfigSource`s provided by this `ConfigSourceProvider` will be available to any WildFly deployment.

== Deployment

Applications that are deployed in WildFly must have CDI enabled (e.g. with a `META-INF/beans.xml`
or by having CDI Bean annotation) to be able to use MicroProfile Config in their code.


== Component Reference

The Eclipse MicroProfile Config is implemented by the SmallRye Config project.

****

* https://microprofile.io/project/eclipse/microprofile-config[Eclipse MicroProfile Config]
* http://github.com/smallrye/smallrye-config/[SmallRye Config]

****

Commit message:

WFLY-14322 Replace 'Contexts and Dependency Injections|CDI' references in java doc with corresponding Jakarta EE ones

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_admin-guide/subsystem-configuration/MicroProfile_Config_SmallRye.adoc, after:

[[MicroProfile_Config_SmallRye]]
= MicroProfile Config Subsystem Configuration

Support for https://microprofile.io/project/eclipse/microprofile-config[Eclipse MicroProfile Config] is provided by
 the _microprofile-config-smallrye_ subsystem.

[[required-extension-microprofile-config-smallrye]]
== Required Extension

This extension is included in the standard configurations included in the
WildFly distribution.

You can also add the extension to a configuration without it either by adding
an `<extension module="org.wildfly.extension.microprofile.config-smallrye"/>`
element to the xml or by using the following CLI operation:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9990 /] /extension=org.wildfly.extension.microprofile.config-smallrye:add
----

== Supported ConfigSources

In addition to the default `ConfigSources` specified by the MicroProfile Config specification
(environment variables, System properties and `META-INF/microprofile-config.properties` file), the
`microprofile-config-smallrye` provides additional types of `ConfigSource`

=== ConfigSource from Properties

You can store properties directly in a `config-source` in the subsystem by using the `properties`
attribute when you add the `config-source`:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
/subsystem=microprofile-config-smallrye/config-source=props:add(properties={"prop1" = "foo", "prop2" = "bar"})
----

This results in the XML configuration:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:wildfly:microprofile-config-smallrye:1.0">
    <config-source name="props">
        <property name="prop1" value="foo"/>
        <property name="prop2" value="bar"/>
    </config-source>
</subsystem>
----

=== ConfigSource from Directory

You can also read properties from a directory where each file is the name of
a property and the file content is the value of the property.

For example, let's imagine that the directory `/etc/config/numbers-app/` contains 2 files:

 * the `num.size` file contains the value `5`
 * the `num.max` file contains the value `100`

We can create a config-source` to access these properties by using the operation:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
/subsystem=microprofile-config-smallrye/config-source=file-props:add(dir={path=/etc/config/numbers-app})
----

This results in the XML configuration:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:wildfly:microprofile-config-smallrye:1.0">
    <config-source name="file-props">
        <dir path="/etc/config/numbers-app"/>
    </config-source>
</subsystem>
----

With that configuration, any application deployed in WildFly can use the `num.size` and
`num.max` properties that are stored in the directory:

[source,java,options="nowrap"]
----
@Inject
@ConfigProperty(name = "num.size")
int numSize; // <1>

@Inject
@ConfigProperty(name = "num.max")
int numMax; // <2>
----
<1> will be set to 5
<2> will be set to 100

[NOTE]
This corresponds to the layout used by https://docs.openshift.com/enterprise/3.2/dev_guide/configmaps.html[OpenShift ConfigMaps].
The `dir` value corresponds to the `mountPath` in the ConfigMap definition in OpenShift or Kubernetes.

=== ConfigSource from Class

You can create a specific type of `ConfigSource` implementation by creating a `config-source` resource
with a `class` attribute.

For example, you can provide an implementation of `org.eclipse.microprofile.config.spi.ConfigSource`
that is named `org.example.MyConfigSource` and provided by a JBoss module named `org.example`:

----
/subsystem=microprofile-config-smallrye/config-source=my-config-source:add(class={name=org.example.MyConfigSource, module=org.example})
----

This results in the XML configuration:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:wildfly:microprofile-config-smallrye:1.0">
    <config-source name="my-config-source">
        <class name="org.example.MyConfigSource" module="org.example"/>
    </config-source>
</subsystem>
----

All properties from this `ConfigSource` will be available to any WildFly deployment.

=== ConfigSourceProvider from Class

You can create a specific type of `ConfigSourceProvider` implementation by creating a `config-source-provider` resource
with a `class` attribute.

For example, you can provide an implementation of `org.eclipse.microprofile.config.spi.ConfigSourceProvider`
that is named `org.example.MyConfigSourceProvider` and provided by a JBoss module named `org.example`:

----
/subsystem=microprofile-config-smallrye/config-source-provider=my-config-source-provider:add(class={name=org.example.MyConfigSourceProvider, module=org.example})
----

This results in the XML configuration:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:wildfly:microprofile-config-smallrye:1.0">
    <config-source-provider name="my-config-source-provider">
         <class name="org.example.MyConfigSourceProvider" module="org.example"/>
    </config-source-provider>
</subsystem>
----

All properties from the `ConfigSource`s provided by this `ConfigSourceProvider` will be available to any WildFly deployment.

== Deployment

Applications that are deployed in WildFly must have Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection enabled (e.g. with a `META-INF/beans.xml`
or by having Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection Bean annotation) to be able to use MicroProfile Config in their code.


== Component Reference

The Eclipse MicroProfile Config is implemented by the SmallRye Config project.

****

* https://microprofile.io/project/eclipse/microprofile-config[Eclipse MicroProfile Config]
* http://github.com/smallrye/smallrye-config/[SmallRye Config]

****
