docs/src/main/asciidoc/_admin-guide/subsystem-configuration/Undertow.adoc, before:

[[Undertow]]
= Undertow subsystem configuration

****

*Web subsystem was replaced in WildFly 8 with Undertow.*

****

There are two main parts to the undertow subsystem, which are server and
Servlet container configuration, as well as some ancillary items.
Advanced topics like load balancing and failover are covered on the
"High Availability Guide". The default configuration does is suitable
for most use cases and provides reasonable performance settings.

*Required extension:*

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<extension module="org.wildfly.extension.undertow" />
----

*Basic subsystem configuration example:*

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:undertow:12.0">
        <buffer-cache name="default" buffer-size="1024" buffers-per-region="1024" max-regions="10"/>
        <server name="default-server">
            <http-listener name="default" socket-binding="http" />
            <host name="default-host" alias="localhost">
                <location name="/" handler="welcome-content" />
            </host>
        </server>
        <servlet-container name="default" default-buffer-cache="default" stack-trace-on-error="local-only" >
            <jsp-config/>
            <persistent-sessions/>
        </servlet-container>
        <handlers>
            <file name="welcome-content" path="${jboss.home.dir}/welcome-content" directory-listing="true"/>
        </handlers>
    </subsystem>
----
[cols=",",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description
|default-server | the default server to use for deployments
|default-virtual-host | the default virtual host to use for deployments
|default-servlet-container | the default servlet container to use for deployments
|instance-id | the id of Undertow. Defaults to "${jboss.node.name}" if undefined
|default-security-domain |the default security domain used by web deployments
|statistics-enabled | set this to true to enable statistics gathering for Undertow subsystem
|=======================================================================


*Dependencies on other subsystems:*

IO Subsystem

[[buffer-cache-configuration]]
== Buffer cache configuration

The buffer cache is used for caching content, such as static files.
Multiple buffer caches can be configured, which allows for separate
servers to use different sized caches.

Buffers are allocated in regions, and are of a fixed size. If you are
caching many small files then using a smaller buffer size will be
better.

The total amount of space used can be calculated by multiplying the
buffer size by the number of buffers per region by the maximum number of
regions.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
  <buffer-caches>
    <buffer-cache name="default" buffer-size="1024" buffers-per-region="1024" max-regions="10"/>
  </buffer-caches>
----

[cols=",",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description

|buffer-size |The size of the buffers. Smaller buffers allow space to be
utilised more effectively

|buffers-per-region |The numbers of buffers per region

|max-regions |The maximum number of regions. This controls the maximum
amount of memory that can be used for caching
|=======================================================================

[[server-configuration]]
== Server configuration

A server represents an instance of Undertow. Basically this consists of
a set of connectors and some configured handlers.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<server name="default-server" default-host="default-host" servlet-container="default" >
----

[cols=",",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description

|default-host |the virtual host that will be used if an incoming request
as no Host: header

|servlet-container |the servlet container that will be used by this
server, unless is is explicitly overriden by the deployment
|=======================================================================

[[connector-configuration]]
=== Connector configuration

Undertow provides HTTP, HTTPS and AJP connectors, which are configured
per server.

[[common-settings]]
==== Common settings

The following settings are common to all connectors:

[cols=",",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description

|socket-binding |The socket binding to use. This determines the address
and port the listener listens on.

|worker |A reference to an XNIO worker, as defined in the IO subsystem.
The worker that is in use controls the IO and blocking thread pool.

|buffer-pool |A reference to a buffer pool as defined in the IO
subsystem. These buffers are used internally to read and write requests.
In general these should be at least 8k, unless you are in a memory
constrained environment.

|enabled |If the connector is enabled.

|max-post-size |The maximum size of incoming post requests that is
allowed.

|buffer-pipelined-data |If responses to HTTP pipelined requests should
be buffered, and send out in a single write. This can improve
performance if HTTP pipe lining is in use and responses are small.

|max-header-size |The maximum size of a HTTP header block that is
allowed. Responses with to much data in their header block will have the
request terminated and a bad request response send.

|max-parameters |The maximum number of query or path parameters that are
allowed. This limit exists to prevent hash collision based DOS attacks.

|max-headers |The maximum number of headers that are allowed. This limit
exists to prevent hash collision based DOS attacks.

|max-cookies |The maximum number of cookies that are allowed. This limit
exists to prevent hash collision based DOS attacks.

|allow-encoded-slash |Set this to true if you want the server to decode
percent encoded slash characters. This is probably a bad idea, as it can
have security implications, due to different servers interpreting the
slash differently. Only enable this if you have a legacy application
that requires it.

|decode-url |If the URL should be decoded. If this is not set to true
then percent encoded characters in the URL will be left as is.

|url-charset |The charset to decode the URL to.

|always-set-keep-alive |If the 'Connection: keep-alive' header should be
added to all responses, even if not required by spec.

|disallowed-methods |A comma separated list of HTTP methods that are not
allowed. HTTP TRACE is disabled by default.
|=======================================================================

[[http-connector]]
==== HTTP Connector

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<http-listener name="default" socket-binding="http"  />
----

[cols=",",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description

|certificate-forwarding |If this is set to true then the HTTP listener
will read a client certificate from the SSL_CLIENT_CERT header. This
allows client cert authentication to be used, even if the server does
not have a direct SSL connection to the end user. This should only be
enabled for servers behind a proxy that has been configured to always
set these headers.

|redirect-socket |The socket binding to redirect requests that require
security too.

|proxy-address-forwarding |If this is enabled then the X-Forwarded-For
and X-Forwarded-Proto headers will be used to determine the peer
address. This allows applications that are behind a proxy to see the
real address of the client, rather than the address of the proxy.
|=======================================================================

[[https-listener]]
==== HTTPS listener

Https listener provides secure access to the server. The most important
configuration option is security realm which defines SSL secure context.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<https-listener name="default" socket-binding="https" security-realm="ssl-realm" />
----

[cols=",",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description

|security-realm |The security realm to use for the SSL configuration.
See Security realm examples for how to configure it: Examples

|verify-client |One of either NOT_REQUESTED, REQUESTED or REQUIRED. If
client cert auth is in use this should be either REQUESTED or REQUIRED.

|enabled-cipher-suites |A list of cypher suit names that are allowed.
|=======================================================================

[[ajp-listener]]
==== AJP listener

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<ajp-listener name="default" socket-binding="ajp" />
----

[[host-configuration]]
=== Host configuration

The host element corresponds to a virtual host.

[cols=",",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description

|name |The virtual host name

|alias |A whitespace separated list of additional host names that should
be matched

|default-web-module |The name of a deployment that should be used to
serve up requests that do not match anything.
|=======================================================================

==== Console Access Logging

Each host allows for access logging to the console which writes structured data in JSON format. This only writes to
`stdout` and is a single line of JSON structured data.

The `attributes` management model attribute is used to determine which exchange attributes should be logged. This is
similar to the `pattern` used for traditional access logging. The main difference being since the data is structured
the ability to use defined keys is essential.

A `metadata` attribute also exists which allows extra metadata to be added to the output. The value of the attribute is
a set of arbitrary key/value pairs. The values can include management model expressions, which must be resolvable when
the console access log service is started. The value is resolved once per start or reload of the server.


===== CLI Examples

.add-console-access-logging.cli
----
/subsystem=undertow/server=default-server/host=default-host/setting=console-access-log:add
----

.complex-add-console-access-logging.cli
----
/subsystem=undertow/server=default-server/host=default-host/setting=console-access-log:add(metadata={"@version"="1", "qualifiedHostName"=${jboss.qualified.host.name:unknown}}, attributes={bytes-sent={}, date-time={key="@timestamp", date-format="yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ssSSS"}, remote-host={}, request-line={}, response-header={key-prefix="responseHeader", names=["Content-Type"]}, response-code={}, remote-user={}})
----

[source,json]
----
{
    "eventSource":"web-access",
    "hostName":"default-host",
    "@version":"1",
    "qualifiedHostName":"localhost.localdomain",
    "bytesSent":1504,
    "@timestamp":"2019-05-02T11:57:37123",
    "remoteHost":"127.0.0.1",
    "remoteUser":null,
    "requestLine":"GET / HTTP/2.0",
    "responseCode":200,
    "responseHeaderContent-Type":"text/html"
}
----

NOTE: The above JSON is formatted only for readability. The output will be on a single line.


[[servlet-container-configuration]]
== Servlet container configuration

The servlet-container element corresponds to an instance of an Undertow
Servlet container. Most servers will only need a single servlet
container, however there may be cases where it makes sense to define
multiple containers (in particular if you want applications to be
isolated, so they cannot dispatch to each other using the
RequestDispatcher. You can also use multiple Servlet containers to serve
different applications from the same context path on different virtual
hosts).

[cols=",",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description

|allow-non-standard-wrappers |The Servlet specification requires
applications to only wrap the request/response using wrapper classes
that extend from the ServletRequestWrapper and ServletResponseWrapper
classes. If this is set to true then this restriction is relaxed.

|default-buffer-cache |The buffer cache that is used to cache static
resources in the default Servlet.

|stack-trace-on-error |Can be either all, none, or local-only. When set
to none Undertow will never display stack traces. When set to All
Undertow will always display them (not recommended for production use).
When set to local-only Undertow will only display them for requests from
local addresses, where there are no headers to indicate that the request
has been proxied. Note that this feature means that the Undertow error
page will be displayed instead of the default error page specified in
web.xml.

|default-encoding |The default encoding to use for requests and
responses.

|use-listener-encoding |If this is true then the default encoding will
be the same as that used by the listener that received the request.

| preserve-path-on-forward | If this is `true`, the return values of the
`getServletPath()`, `getRequestURL()` and `getRequestURI()` methods from
 `HttpServletRequest` will be unchanged following a
 `RequestDispatcher.forward()` call, and point to the original resource requested.
If `false`, following the `RequestDispatcher.forward()` call, they will
point to the resource being forwarded to.


|=======================================================================

[[jsp-configuration]]
=== JSP configuration

[[session-cookie-configuration]]
=== Session Cookie Configuration

This allows you to change the attributes of the session cookie.

[cols=",",options="header"]
|======================================
|Attribute |Description
|name |The cookie name
|domain |The cookie domain
|comment |The cookie comment
|http-only |If the cookie is HTTP only
|secure |If the cookie is marked secure
|max-age |The max age of the cookie
|======================================

[[persistent-session-configuration]]
=== Persistent Session Configuration

Persistent sessions allow session data to be saved across redeploys and
restarts. This feature is enabled by adding the persistent-sessions
element to the server config. This is mostly intended to be a
development time feature.

If the path is not specified then session data is stored in memory, and
will only be persistent across redeploys, rather than restarts.

[cols=",",options="header"]
|======================================================
|Attribute |Description
|path |The path to the persistent sessions data
|relative-to |The location that the path is relevant to
|======================================================

:leveloffset: +1

include::Undertow_AJP_listeners.adoc[]

include::Undertow_using_as_a_Load_Balancer.adoc[]

:leveloffset: -1

Commit message:

[WFLY-12473] Add Undertow subsystem obfuscate-session-route attribute, update tests and documentation

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_admin-guide/subsystem-configuration/Undertow.adoc, after:

[[Undertow]]
= Undertow subsystem configuration

****

*Web subsystem was replaced in WildFly 8 with Undertow.*

****

There are two main parts to the undertow subsystem, which are server and
Servlet container configuration, as well as some ancillary items.
Advanced topics like load balancing and failover are covered on the
"High Availability Guide". The default configuration does is suitable
for most use cases and provides reasonable performance settings.

*Required extension:*

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<extension module="org.wildfly.extension.undertow" />
----

*Basic subsystem configuration example:*

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<subsystem xmlns="urn:jboss:domain:undertow:12.0">
        <buffer-cache name="default" buffer-size="1024" buffers-per-region="1024" max-regions="10"/>
        <server name="default-server">
            <http-listener name="default" socket-binding="http" />
            <host name="default-host" alias="localhost">
                <location name="/" handler="welcome-content" />
            </host>
        </server>
        <servlet-container name="default" default-buffer-cache="default" stack-trace-on-error="local-only" >
            <jsp-config/>
            <persistent-sessions/>
        </servlet-container>
        <handlers>
            <file name="welcome-content" path="${jboss.home.dir}/welcome-content" directory-listing="true"/>
        </handlers>
    </subsystem>
----
[cols=",",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description
|default-server | the default server to use for deployments
|default-virtual-host | the default virtual host to use for deployments
|default-servlet-container | the default servlet container to use for deployments
|instance-id | the id of Undertow. Defaults to "${jboss.node.name}" if undefined
|obfuscate-session-route | set this to true to indicate the instance-id and server
name should be both obfuscated in routing. This prevents instance-id and server
name data from being sent across HTTP connections when serving remote requests with
the HTTP invoker
|default-security-domain |the default security domain used by web deployments
|statistics-enabled | set this to true to enable statistics gathering for Undertow subsystem
|=======================================================================


*Dependencies on other subsystems:*

IO Subsystem

[[buffer-cache-configuration]]
== Buffer cache configuration

The buffer cache is used for caching content, such as static files.
Multiple buffer caches can be configured, which allows for separate
servers to use different sized caches.

Buffers are allocated in regions, and are of a fixed size. If you are
caching many small files then using a smaller buffer size will be
better.

The total amount of space used can be calculated by multiplying the
buffer size by the number of buffers per region by the maximum number of
regions.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
  <buffer-caches>
    <buffer-cache name="default" buffer-size="1024" buffers-per-region="1024" max-regions="10"/>
  </buffer-caches>
----

[cols=",",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description

|buffer-size |The size of the buffers. Smaller buffers allow space to be
utilised more effectively

|buffers-per-region |The numbers of buffers per region

|max-regions |The maximum number of regions. This controls the maximum
amount of memory that can be used for caching
|=======================================================================

[[server-configuration]]
== Server configuration

A server represents an instance of Undertow. Basically this consists of
a set of connectors and some configured handlers.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<server name="default-server" default-host="default-host" servlet-container="default" >
----

[cols=",",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description

|default-host |the virtual host that will be used if an incoming request
as no Host: header

|servlet-container |the servlet container that will be used by this
server, unless is is explicitly overriden by the deployment
|=======================================================================

[[connector-configuration]]
=== Connector configuration

Undertow provides HTTP, HTTPS and AJP connectors, which are configured
per server.

[[common-settings]]
==== Common settings

The following settings are common to all connectors:

[cols=",",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description

|socket-binding |The socket binding to use. This determines the address
and port the listener listens on.

|worker |A reference to an XNIO worker, as defined in the IO subsystem.
The worker that is in use controls the IO and blocking thread pool.

|buffer-pool |A reference to a buffer pool as defined in the IO
subsystem. These buffers are used internally to read and write requests.
In general these should be at least 8k, unless you are in a memory
constrained environment.

|enabled |If the connector is enabled.

|max-post-size |The maximum size of incoming post requests that is
allowed.

|buffer-pipelined-data |If responses to HTTP pipelined requests should
be buffered, and send out in a single write. This can improve
performance if HTTP pipe lining is in use and responses are small.

|max-header-size |The maximum size of a HTTP header block that is
allowed. Responses with to much data in their header block will have the
request terminated and a bad request response send.

|max-parameters |The maximum number of query or path parameters that are
allowed. This limit exists to prevent hash collision based DOS attacks.

|max-headers |The maximum number of headers that are allowed. This limit
exists to prevent hash collision based DOS attacks.

|max-cookies |The maximum number of cookies that are allowed. This limit
exists to prevent hash collision based DOS attacks.

|allow-encoded-slash |Set this to true if you want the server to decode
percent encoded slash characters. This is probably a bad idea, as it can
have security implications, due to different servers interpreting the
slash differently. Only enable this if you have a legacy application
that requires it.

|decode-url |If the URL should be decoded. If this is not set to true
then percent encoded characters in the URL will be left as is.

|url-charset |The charset to decode the URL to.

|always-set-keep-alive |If the 'Connection: keep-alive' header should be
added to all responses, even if not required by spec.

|disallowed-methods |A comma separated list of HTTP methods that are not
allowed. HTTP TRACE is disabled by default.
|=======================================================================

[[http-connector]]
==== HTTP Connector

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<http-listener name="default" socket-binding="http"  />
----

[cols=",",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description

|certificate-forwarding |If this is set to true then the HTTP listener
will read a client certificate from the SSL_CLIENT_CERT header. This
allows client cert authentication to be used, even if the server does
not have a direct SSL connection to the end user. This should only be
enabled for servers behind a proxy that has been configured to always
set these headers.

|redirect-socket |The socket binding to redirect requests that require
security too.

|proxy-address-forwarding |If this is enabled then the X-Forwarded-For
and X-Forwarded-Proto headers will be used to determine the peer
address. This allows applications that are behind a proxy to see the
real address of the client, rather than the address of the proxy.
|=======================================================================

[[https-listener]]
==== HTTPS listener

Https listener provides secure access to the server. The most important
configuration option is security realm which defines SSL secure context.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<https-listener name="default" socket-binding="https" security-realm="ssl-realm" />
----

[cols=",",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description

|security-realm |The security realm to use for the SSL configuration.
See Security realm examples for how to configure it: Examples

|verify-client |One of either NOT_REQUESTED, REQUESTED or REQUIRED. If
client cert auth is in use this should be either REQUESTED or REQUIRED.

|enabled-cipher-suites |A list of cypher suit names that are allowed.
|=======================================================================

[[ajp-listener]]
==== AJP listener

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<ajp-listener name="default" socket-binding="ajp" />
----

[[host-configuration]]
=== Host configuration

The host element corresponds to a virtual host.

[cols=",",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description

|name |The virtual host name

|alias |A whitespace separated list of additional host names that should
be matched

|default-web-module |The name of a deployment that should be used to
serve up requests that do not match anything.
|=======================================================================

==== Console Access Logging

Each host allows for access logging to the console which writes structured data in JSON format. This only writes to
`stdout` and is a single line of JSON structured data.

The `attributes` management model attribute is used to determine which exchange attributes should be logged. This is
similar to the `pattern` used for traditional access logging. The main difference being since the data is structured
the ability to use defined keys is essential.

A `metadata` attribute also exists which allows extra metadata to be added to the output. The value of the attribute is
a set of arbitrary key/value pairs. The values can include management model expressions, which must be resolvable when
the console access log service is started. The value is resolved once per start or reload of the server.


===== CLI Examples

.add-console-access-logging.cli
----
/subsystem=undertow/server=default-server/host=default-host/setting=console-access-log:add
----

.complex-add-console-access-logging.cli
----
/subsystem=undertow/server=default-server/host=default-host/setting=console-access-log:add(metadata={"@version"="1", "qualifiedHostName"=${jboss.qualified.host.name:unknown}}, attributes={bytes-sent={}, date-time={key="@timestamp", date-format="yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ssSSS"}, remote-host={}, request-line={}, response-header={key-prefix="responseHeader", names=["Content-Type"]}, response-code={}, remote-user={}})
----

[source,json]
----
{
    "eventSource":"web-access",
    "hostName":"default-host",
    "@version":"1",
    "qualifiedHostName":"localhost.localdomain",
    "bytesSent":1504,
    "@timestamp":"2019-05-02T11:57:37123",
    "remoteHost":"127.0.0.1",
    "remoteUser":null,
    "requestLine":"GET / HTTP/2.0",
    "responseCode":200,
    "responseHeaderContent-Type":"text/html"
}
----

NOTE: The above JSON is formatted only for readability. The output will be on a single line.


[[servlet-container-configuration]]
== Servlet container configuration

The servlet-container element corresponds to an instance of an Undertow
Servlet container. Most servers will only need a single servlet
container, however there may be cases where it makes sense to define
multiple containers (in particular if you want applications to be
isolated, so they cannot dispatch to each other using the
RequestDispatcher. You can also use multiple Servlet containers to serve
different applications from the same context path on different virtual
hosts).

[cols=",",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Attribute |Description

|allow-non-standard-wrappers |The Servlet specification requires
applications to only wrap the request/response using wrapper classes
that extend from the ServletRequestWrapper and ServletResponseWrapper
classes. If this is set to true then this restriction is relaxed.

|default-buffer-cache |The buffer cache that is used to cache static
resources in the default Servlet.

|stack-trace-on-error |Can be either all, none, or local-only. When set
to none Undertow will never display stack traces. When set to All
Undertow will always display them (not recommended for production use).
When set to local-only Undertow will only display them for requests from
local addresses, where there are no headers to indicate that the request
has been proxied. Note that this feature means that the Undertow error
page will be displayed instead of the default error page specified in
web.xml.

|default-encoding |The default encoding to use for requests and
responses.

|use-listener-encoding |If this is true then the default encoding will
be the same as that used by the listener that received the request.

| preserve-path-on-forward | If this is `true`, the return values of the
`getServletPath()`, `getRequestURL()` and `getRequestURI()` methods from
 `HttpServletRequest` will be unchanged following a
 `RequestDispatcher.forward()` call, and point to the original resource requested.
If `false`, following the `RequestDispatcher.forward()` call, they will
point to the resource being forwarded to.


|=======================================================================

[[jsp-configuration]]
=== JSP configuration

[[session-cookie-configuration]]
=== Session Cookie Configuration

This allows you to change the attributes of the session cookie.

[cols=",",options="header"]
|======================================
|Attribute |Description
|name |The cookie name
|domain |The cookie domain
|comment |The cookie comment
|http-only |If the cookie is HTTP only
|secure |If the cookie is marked secure
|max-age |The max age of the cookie
|======================================

[[persistent-session-configuration]]
=== Persistent Session Configuration

Persistent sessions allow session data to be saved across redeploys and
restarts. This feature is enabled by adding the persistent-sessions
element to the server config. This is mostly intended to be a
development time feature.

If the path is not specified then session data is stored in memory, and
will only be persistent across redeploys, rather than restarts.

[cols=",",options="header"]
|======================================================
|Attribute |Description
|path |The path to the persistent sessions data
|relative-to |The location that the path is relevant to
|======================================================

:leveloffset: +1

include::Undertow_AJP_listeners.adoc[]

include::Undertow_using_as_a_Load_Balancer.adoc[]

:leveloffset: -1
