docs/src/main/asciidoc/_admin-guide/subsystem-configuration/Web_services.adoc, before:

[[Web_services]]
= Web services configuration

JBossWS components are provided to the application server through the
webservices subsystem. JBossWS components handle the processing of WS
endpoints. The subsystem supports the configuration of published
endpoint addresses, and endpoint handler chains. A default webservice
subsystem is provided in the server's domain and standalone
configuration files.

[[structure-of-the-webservices-subsystem]]
== Structure of the webservices subsystem

[[published-endpoint-address]]
=== Published endpoint address

JBossWS supports the rewriting of the `<soap:address>` element of
endpoints published in WSDL contracts. This feature is useful for
controlling the server address that is advertised to clients for each
endpoint.

The following elements are available and can be modified (all are
optional):

[cols=",,",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Type |Description

|modify-wsdl-address |boolean |This boolean enables and disables the
address rewrite functionality.When modify-wsdl-address is set to true
and the content of <soap:address> is a valid URL, JBossWS will rewrite
the URL using the values of wsdl-host and wsdl-port or
wsdl-secure-port.When modify-wsdl-address is set to false and the
content of <soap:address> is a valid URL, JBossWS will not rewrite the
URL. The <soap:address> URL will be used.When the content of
<soap:address> is not a valid URL, JBossWS will rewrite it no matter
what the setting of modify-wsdl-address.If modify-wsdl-address is set to
true and wsdl-host is not defined or explicitly set to
'jbossws.undefined.host' the content of <soap:address> URL is use.
JBossWS uses the requester's host when rewriting the <soap:address>When
modify-wsdl-address is not defined JBossWS uses a default value of true.

|wsdl-host |string |The hostname / IP address to be used for rewriting
<soap:address>.If wsdl-host is set to jbossws.undefined.host, JBossWS
uses the requester's host when rewriting the <soap:address>When
wsdl-host is not defined JBossWS uses a default value of
'jbossws.undefined.host'.

|wsdl-port |int |Set this property to explicitly define the HTTP port
that will be used for rewriting the SOAP address.Otherwise the HTTP port
will be identified by querying the list of installed HTTP connectors.

|wsdl-secure-port |int |Set this property to explicitly define the HTTPS
port that will be used for rewriting the SOAP address.Otherwise the
HTTPS port will be identified by querying the list of installed HTTPS
connectors.

|wsdl-uri-scheme |string |This property explicitly sets the URI scheme
to use for rewriting <soap:address> . Valid values are http and https.
This configuration overrides scheme computed by processing the endpoint
(even if a transport guaranteeis specified). The provided values for
wsdl-port and wsdl-secure-port (or their default values) are used
depending on specified scheme.

|wsdl-path-rewrite-rule |string |This string defines a SED substitution
command (e.g., 's/regexp/replacement/g') that JBossWS executes against
the path component of each <soap:address> URL published from the
server.When wsdl-path-rewrite-rule is not defined, JBossWS retains the
original path component of each <soap:address> URL.When
'modify-wsdl-address' is set to "false" this element is ignored.
|=======================================================================

[[predefined-endpoint-configurations]]
=== Predefined endpoint configurations

JBossWS enables extra setup configuration data to be predefined and
associated with an endpoint implementation. Predefined endpoint
configurations can be used for JAX-WS client and JAX-WS endpoint setup.
Endpoint configurations can include JAX-WS handlers and key/value
properties declarations. This feature provides a convenient way to add
handlers to WS endpoints and to set key/value properties that control
JBossWS and Apache CXF internals (
https://docs.jboss.org/author/display/JBWS/Apache+CXF+integration#ApacheCXFintegration-Deploymentdescriptorproperties[see
Apache CXF configuration]).

The webservices subsystem provides
http://www.jboss.org/schema/jbossas/jboss-as-webservices_1_2.xsd[schema]
to support the definition of named sets of endpoint configuration data.
Annotation, _org.jboss.ws.api.annotation.EndpointConfig_ is provided to
map the named configuration to the endpoint implementation.

There is no limit to the number of endpoint configurations that can be
defined within the webservices subsystem. Each endpoint configuration
must have a name that is unique within the webservices subsystem.
Endpoint configurations defined in the webservices subsystem are
available for reference by name through the annotation to any endpoint
in a deployed application.

WildFly ships with two predefined endpoint configurations.
Standard-Endpoint-Config is the default configuration.
Recording-Endpoint-Config is an example of custom endpoint configuration
and includes a recording handler.

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9999 /] /subsystem=webservices:read-resource
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => {
        "endpoint" => {},
        "modify-wsdl-address" => true,
        "wsdl-host" => expression "${jboss.bind.address:127.0.0.1}",
        "endpoint-config" => {
            "Standard-Endpoint-Config" => undefined,
            "Recording-Endpoint-Config" => undefined
        }
    }
}
----

[IMPORTANT]

The `Standard-Endpoint-Config` is a special endpoint configuration. It
is used for any endpoint that does not have an explicitly assigned
endpoint configuration.

[[endpoint-configs]]
==== Endpoint configs

Endpoint configs are defined using `the endpoint-config` element. Each
endpoint configuration may include properties and handlers set to the
endpoints associated to the configuration.

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9999 /] /subsystem=webservices/endpoint-config=Recording-Endpoint-Config:read-resource
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => {
        "post-handler-chain" => undefined,
        "property" => undefined,
        "pre-handler-chain" => {"recording-handlers" => undefined}
    }
}
----

A new endpoint configuration can be added as follows:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9999 /] /subsystem=webservices/endpoint-config=My-Endpoint-Config:add
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "response-headers" => {
        "operation-requires-restart" => true,
        "process-state" => "restart-required"
    }
}
----

[[handler-chains]]
==== Handler chains

Each endpoint configuration may be associated with zero or more PRE and
POST handler chains. Each handler chain may include JAXWS handlers. For
outbound messages the PRE handler chains are executed before any handler
that is attached to the endpoint using the standard means, such as with
annotation @HandlerChain, and POST handler chains are executed after
those objects have executed. For inbound messages the POST handler
chains are executed before any handler that is attached to the endpoint
using the standard means and the PRE handler chains are executed after
those objects have executed.

....
* Server inbound messages
Client --> ... --> POST HANDLER --> ENDPOINT HANDLERS --> PRE HANDLERS --> Endpoint

* Server outbound messages
Endpoint --> PRE HANDLER --> ENDPOINT HANDLERS --> POST HANDLERS --> ... --> Client
....

The protocol-binding attribute must be used to set the protocols for
which the chain will be triggered.

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9999 /] /subsystem=webservices/endpoint-config=Recording-Endpoint-Config/pre-handler-chain=recording-handlers:read-resource
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => {
        "protocol-bindings" => "##SOAP11_HTTP ##SOAP11_HTTP_MTOM ##SOAP12_HTTP ##SOAP12_HTTP_MTOM",
        "handler" => {"RecordingHandler" => undefined}
    },
    "response-headers" => {"process-state" => "restart-required"}
}
----

A new handler chain can be added as follows:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9999 /] /subsystem=webservices/endpoint-config=My-Endpoint-Config/post-handler-chain=my-handlers:add(protocol-bindings="##SOAP11_HTTP")
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "response-headers" => {
        "operation-requires-restart" => true,
        "process-state" => "restart-required"
    }
}
[standalone@localhost:9999 /] /subsystem=webservices/endpoint-config=My-Endpoint-Config/post-handler-chain=my-handlers:read-resource
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => {
        "handler" => undefined,
        "protocol-bindings" => "##SOAP11_HTTP"
    },
    "response-headers" => {"process-state" => "restart-required"}
}
----

[[jaxws-handlers]]
==== Handlers

JAXWS handler can be added in handler chains:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9999 /] /subsystem=webservices/endpoint-config=Recording-Endpoint-Config/pre-handler-chain=recording-handlers/handler=RecordingHandler:read-resource
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => {"class" => "org.jboss.ws.common.invocation.RecordingServerHandler"},
    "response-headers" => {"process-state" => "restart-required"}
}
[standalone@localhost:9999 /] /subsystem=webservices/endpoint-config=My-Endpoint-Config/post-handler-chain=my-handlers/handler=foo-handler:add(class="org.jboss.ws.common.invocation.RecordingServerHandler")
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "response-headers" => {
        "operation-requires-restart" => true,
        "process-state" => "restart-required"
    }
}
----

Endpoint-config handler classloading

[NOTE]

The `class` attribute is used to provide the fully qualified class name
of the handler. At deploy time, an instance of the class is created for
each referencing deployment. For class creation to succeed, the
deployment classloader must to be able to load the handler class.

[[runtime-information]]
== Runtime information

Each web service endpoint is exposed through the deployment that
provides the endpoint implementation. Each endpoint can be queried as a
deployment resource. For further information please consult the chapter
"Application Deployment". Each web service endpoint specifies a web
context and a WSDL Url:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9999 /] /deployment="*"/subsystem=webservices/endpoint="*":read-resource
{
   "outcome" => "success",
   "result" => [{
       "address" => [
           ("deployment" => "jaxws-samples-handlerchain.war"),
           ("subsystem" => "webservices"),
           ("endpoint" => "jaxws-samples-handlerchain:TestService")
       ],
       "outcome" => "success",
       "result" => {
           "class" => "org.jboss.test.ws.jaxws.samples.handlerchain.EndpointImpl",
           "context" => "jaxws-samples-handlerchain",
           "name" => "TestService",
           "type" => "JAXWS_JSE",
           "wsdl-url" => "http://localhost:8080/jaxws-samples-handlerchain?wsdl"
       }
   }]
}
----

[[ws-component-reference]]
== Component Reference

The web service subsystem is provided by the JBossWS project. For a
detailed description of the available configuration properties, please
consult the project documentation.

****

* JBossWS homepage: http://www.jboss.org/jbossws
* Project Documentation: https://docs.jboss.org/author/display/JBWS

****

Commit message:

WFLY-14326 Replace 'Java Architecture for XML Binding|JAXB, Java API for JSON Binding|JSON-B, Java API for XML-Based Web Services|JAX-WS' references in java doc with corresponding Jakarta EE ones

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_admin-guide/subsystem-configuration/Web_services.adoc, after:

[[Web_services]]
= Web services configuration

JBossWS components are provided to the application server through the
webservices subsystem. JBossWS components handle the processing of WS
endpoints. The subsystem supports the configuration of published
endpoint addresses, and endpoint handler chains. A default webservice
subsystem is provided in the server's domain and standalone
configuration files.

[[structure-of-the-webservices-subsystem]]
== Structure of the webservices subsystem

[[published-endpoint-address]]
=== Published endpoint address

JBossWS supports the rewriting of the `<soap:address>` element of
endpoints published in WSDL contracts. This feature is useful for
controlling the server address that is advertised to clients for each
endpoint.

The following elements are available and can be modified (all are
optional):

[cols=",,",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Type |Description

|modify-wsdl-address |boolean |This boolean enables and disables the
address rewrite functionality.When modify-wsdl-address is set to true
and the content of <soap:address> is a valid URL, JBossWS will rewrite
the URL using the values of wsdl-host and wsdl-port or
wsdl-secure-port.When modify-wsdl-address is set to false and the
content of <soap:address> is a valid URL, JBossWS will not rewrite the
URL. The <soap:address> URL will be used.When the content of
<soap:address> is not a valid URL, JBossWS will rewrite it no matter
what the setting of modify-wsdl-address.If modify-wsdl-address is set to
true and wsdl-host is not defined or explicitly set to
'jbossws.undefined.host' the content of <soap:address> URL is use.
JBossWS uses the requester's host when rewriting the <soap:address>When
modify-wsdl-address is not defined JBossWS uses a default value of true.

|wsdl-host |string |The hostname / IP address to be used for rewriting
<soap:address>.If wsdl-host is set to jbossws.undefined.host, JBossWS
uses the requester's host when rewriting the <soap:address>When
wsdl-host is not defined JBossWS uses a default value of
'jbossws.undefined.host'.

|wsdl-port |int |Set this property to explicitly define the HTTP port
that will be used for rewriting the SOAP address.Otherwise the HTTP port
will be identified by querying the list of installed HTTP connectors.

|wsdl-secure-port |int |Set this property to explicitly define the HTTPS
port that will be used for rewriting the SOAP address.Otherwise the
HTTPS port will be identified by querying the list of installed HTTPS
connectors.

|wsdl-uri-scheme |string |This property explicitly sets the URI scheme
to use for rewriting <soap:address> . Valid values are http and https.
This configuration overrides scheme computed by processing the endpoint
(even if a transport guaranteeis specified). The provided values for
wsdl-port and wsdl-secure-port (or their default values) are used
depending on specified scheme.

|wsdl-path-rewrite-rule |string |This string defines a SED substitution
command (e.g., 's/regexp/replacement/g') that JBossWS executes against
the path component of each <soap:address> URL published from the
server.When wsdl-path-rewrite-rule is not defined, JBossWS retains the
original path component of each <soap:address> URL.When
'modify-wsdl-address' is set to "false" this element is ignored.
|=======================================================================

[[predefined-endpoint-configurations]]
=== Predefined endpoint configurations

JBossWS enables extra setup configuration data to be predefined and
associated with an endpoint implementation. Predefined endpoint
configurations can be used for Jakarta XML Web Services client and Jakarta XML Web Services endpoint setup.
Endpoint configurations can include Jakarta XML Web Services handlers and key/value
properties declarations. This feature provides a convenient way to add
handlers to WS endpoints and to set key/value properties that control
JBossWS and Apache CXF internals (
https://docs.jboss.org/author/display/JBWS/Apache+CXF+integration#ApacheCXFintegration-Deploymentdescriptorproperties[see
Apache CXF configuration]).

The webservices subsystem provides
http://www.jboss.org/schema/jbossas/jboss-as-webservices_1_2.xsd[schema]
to support the definition of named sets of endpoint configuration data.
Annotation, _org.jboss.ws.api.annotation.EndpointConfig_ is provided to
map the named configuration to the endpoint implementation.

There is no limit to the number of endpoint configurations that can be
defined within the webservices subsystem. Each endpoint configuration
must have a name that is unique within the webservices subsystem.
Endpoint configurations defined in the webservices subsystem are
available for reference by name through the annotation to any endpoint
in a deployed application.

WildFly ships with two predefined endpoint configurations.
Standard-Endpoint-Config is the default configuration.
Recording-Endpoint-Config is an example of custom endpoint configuration
and includes a recording handler.

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9999 /] /subsystem=webservices:read-resource
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => {
        "endpoint" => {},
        "modify-wsdl-address" => true,
        "wsdl-host" => expression "${jboss.bind.address:127.0.0.1}",
        "endpoint-config" => {
            "Standard-Endpoint-Config" => undefined,
            "Recording-Endpoint-Config" => undefined
        }
    }
}
----

[IMPORTANT]

The `Standard-Endpoint-Config` is a special endpoint configuration. It
is used for any endpoint that does not have an explicitly assigned
endpoint configuration.

[[endpoint-configs]]
==== Endpoint configs

Endpoint configs are defined using `the endpoint-config` element. Each
endpoint configuration may include properties and handlers set to the
endpoints associated to the configuration.

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9999 /] /subsystem=webservices/endpoint-config=Recording-Endpoint-Config:read-resource
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => {
        "post-handler-chain" => undefined,
        "property" => undefined,
        "pre-handler-chain" => {"recording-handlers" => undefined}
    }
}
----

A new endpoint configuration can be added as follows:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9999 /] /subsystem=webservices/endpoint-config=My-Endpoint-Config:add
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "response-headers" => {
        "operation-requires-restart" => true,
        "process-state" => "restart-required"
    }
}
----

[[handler-chains]]
==== Handler chains

Each endpoint configuration may be associated with zero or more PRE and
POST handler chains. Each handler chain may include JAXWS handlers. For
outbound messages the PRE handler chains are executed before any handler
that is attached to the endpoint using the standard means, such as with
annotation @HandlerChain, and POST handler chains are executed after
those objects have executed. For inbound messages the POST handler
chains are executed before any handler that is attached to the endpoint
using the standard means and the PRE handler chains are executed after
those objects have executed.

....
* Server inbound messages
Client --> ... --> POST HANDLER --> ENDPOINT HANDLERS --> PRE HANDLERS --> Endpoint

* Server outbound messages
Endpoint --> PRE HANDLER --> ENDPOINT HANDLERS --> POST HANDLERS --> ... --> Client
....

The protocol-binding attribute must be used to set the protocols for
which the chain will be triggered.

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9999 /] /subsystem=webservices/endpoint-config=Recording-Endpoint-Config/pre-handler-chain=recording-handlers:read-resource
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => {
        "protocol-bindings" => "##SOAP11_HTTP ##SOAP11_HTTP_MTOM ##SOAP12_HTTP ##SOAP12_HTTP_MTOM",
        "handler" => {"RecordingHandler" => undefined}
    },
    "response-headers" => {"process-state" => "restart-required"}
}
----

A new handler chain can be added as follows:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9999 /] /subsystem=webservices/endpoint-config=My-Endpoint-Config/post-handler-chain=my-handlers:add(protocol-bindings="##SOAP11_HTTP")
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "response-headers" => {
        "operation-requires-restart" => true,
        "process-state" => "restart-required"
    }
}
[standalone@localhost:9999 /] /subsystem=webservices/endpoint-config=My-Endpoint-Config/post-handler-chain=my-handlers:read-resource
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => {
        "handler" => undefined,
        "protocol-bindings" => "##SOAP11_HTTP"
    },
    "response-headers" => {"process-state" => "restart-required"}
}
----

[[jaxws-handlers]]
==== Handlers

JAXWS handler can be added in handler chains:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9999 /] /subsystem=webservices/endpoint-config=Recording-Endpoint-Config/pre-handler-chain=recording-handlers/handler=RecordingHandler:read-resource
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "result" => {"class" => "org.jboss.ws.common.invocation.RecordingServerHandler"},
    "response-headers" => {"process-state" => "restart-required"}
}
[standalone@localhost:9999 /] /subsystem=webservices/endpoint-config=My-Endpoint-Config/post-handler-chain=my-handlers/handler=foo-handler:add(class="org.jboss.ws.common.invocation.RecordingServerHandler")
{
    "outcome" => "success",
    "response-headers" => {
        "operation-requires-restart" => true,
        "process-state" => "restart-required"
    }
}
----

Endpoint-config handler classloading

[NOTE]

The `class` attribute is used to provide the fully qualified class name
of the handler. At deploy time, an instance of the class is created for
each referencing deployment. For class creation to succeed, the
deployment classloader must to be able to load the handler class.

[[runtime-information]]
== Runtime information

Each web service endpoint is exposed through the deployment that
provides the endpoint implementation. Each endpoint can be queried as a
deployment resource. For further information please consult the chapter
"Application Deployment". Each web service endpoint specifies a web
context and a WSDL Url:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
[standalone@localhost:9999 /] /deployment="*"/subsystem=webservices/endpoint="*":read-resource
{
   "outcome" => "success",
   "result" => [{
       "address" => [
           ("deployment" => "jaxws-samples-handlerchain.war"),
           ("subsystem" => "webservices"),
           ("endpoint" => "jaxws-samples-handlerchain:TestService")
       ],
       "outcome" => "success",
       "result" => {
           "class" => "org.jboss.test.ws.jaxws.samples.handlerchain.EndpointImpl",
           "context" => "jaxws-samples-handlerchain",
           "name" => "TestService",
           "type" => "JAXWS_JSE",
           "wsdl-url" => "http://localhost:8080/jaxws-samples-handlerchain?wsdl"
       }
   }]
}
----

[[ws-component-reference]]
== Component Reference

The web service subsystem is provided by the JBossWS project. For a
detailed description of the available configuration properties, please
consult the project documentation.

****

* JBossWS homepage: http://www.jboss.org/jbossws
* Project Documentation: https://docs.jboss.org/author/display/JBWS

****
