docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/ejb3/jboss-ejb3.xml_Reference.adoc, before:

[[jboss-ejb3]]
= jboss-ejb3.xml Reference

`jboss-ejb3.xml` is a custom deployment descriptor that can be placed in
either ejb-jar or war archives. If it is placed in an ejb-jar then it
must be placed in the `META-INF` folder, in a web archive it must be
placed in the `WEB-INF` folder.

The contents of `jboss-ejb3.xml` are merged with the contents of
`ejb-jar.xml`, with the `jboss-ejb3.xml` items taking precedence.

[[example-file]]
== Example File

A simple example is shown below:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<?xml version="1.1" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<jboss:ejb-jar xmlns:jboss="http://www.jboss.com/xml/ns/javaee"
               xmlns="http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee"
               xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
               xmlns:s="urn:security:1.1"
               xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.jboss.com/xml/ns/javaee http://www.jboss.org/j2ee/schema/jboss-ejb3-2_0.xsd http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee http://www.jboss.org/j2ee/schema/jboss-ejb3-spec-2_0.xsd"
               version="3.1"
               impl-version="2.0">
    <enterprise-beans>
        <message-driven>
            <ejb-name>ReplyingMDB</ejb-name>
            <ejb-class>org.jboss.as.test.integration.ejb.mdb.messagedestination.ReplyingMDB</ejb-class>
            <activation-config>
                <activation-config-property>
                    <activation-config-property-name>destination</activation-config-property-name>
                    <activation-config-property-value>java:jboss/mdbtest/messageDestinationQueue
                    </activation-config-property-value>
                </activation-config-property>
            </activation-config>
        </message-driven>
    </enterprise-beans>
    <assembly-descriptor>
        <s:security>
            <ejb-name>DDMyDomainSFSB</ejb-name>
            <s:security-domain>myDomain</s:security-domain>
            <s:run-as-principal>myPrincipal</s:run-as-principal>
        </s:security>
    </assembly-descriptor>
</jboss:ejb-jar>
----

As you can see the format is largely similar to `ejb-jar.xml`, in fact
they even use the same namespaces, however `jboss-ejb3.xml` adds some
additional namespaces of its own to allow for configuring non-spec info.
The format of the standard `http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee` is well
documented elsewhere, this document will cover the non-standard
namespaces.

NOTE: Namespace "http://www.jboss.com/xml/ns/javaee" is bound to "jboss-ejb3-spec-2_0.xsd": this file redefines some elements of "ejb-jar_3_1.xml"

[[the-root-namespace-httpwww.jboss.comxmlnsjavaee]]
=== The root namespace http://www.jboss.com/xml/ns/javaee

[[assembly-descriptor-namespaces]]
=== Assembly descriptor namespaces

The following namespaces can all be used in the `<assembly-descriptor>`
element. They can be used to apply their configuration to a single bean,
or to all beans in the deployment by using `*` as the `ejb-name`.

[[the-security-namespace-urnsecurity]]
==== The security namespace urn:security

This allows you to set the security domain and the run-as principal for
an EJB.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<s:security>
  <ejb-name>*</ejb-name>
  <s:security-domain>myDomain</s:security-domain>
  <s:run-as-principal>myPrincipal</s:run-as-principal>
</s:security>
----

[[the-resource-adaptor-namespace-urnresource-adapter-binding]]
==== The resource adaptor namespace urn:resource-adapter-binding

This allows you to set the resource adaptor for an MDB.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<r:resource-adapter-binding>
  <ejb-name>*</ejb-name>
  <r:resource-adapter-name>myResourceAdaptor</r:resource-adapter-name>
</r:resource-adapter-binding>
----

[[the-iiop-namespace-urniiop]]
==== The IIOP namespace urn:iiop

The IIOP namespace is where IIOP settings are configured. As there are
quite a large number of options these are covered in the
<<EJB_IIOP_Guide,IIOP guide>>.

[[the-pool-namespace-urnejb-pool1.0]]
==== The pool namespace urn:ejb-pool:1.0

This allows you to select the pool that is used by the SLSB or MDB.
Pools are defined in the server configuration (i.e. `standalone.xml` or
`domain.xml`)

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<p:pool>
  <ejb-name>*</ejb-name>
  <p:bean-instance-pool-ref>my-pool</p:bean-instance-pool-ref>
</p:pool>
----

[[the-cache-namespace-urnejb-cache1.0]]
==== The cache namespace urn:ejb-cache:1.0

This allows you to select the cache that is used by the SFSB. Caches are
defined in the server configuration (i.e. `standalone.xml` or
`domain.xml`)

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<c:cache>
  <ejb-name>*</ejb-name>
  <c:cache-ref>my-cache</c:cache-ref>
</c:cache>
----

[[the-clustering-namespace-urnclustering1.0]]
==== The clustering namespace urn:clustering:1.0

This namespace is deprecated and as of WildFly {wildflyVersion} its use has no effect.
The clustering behavior of EJBs is determined by the profile in use on
the server.

Commit message:

WFLY-14320 Replace 'Enterprise JavaBeans|EJB' references in java doc with corresponding Jakarta EE ones

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_developer-guide/ejb3/jboss-ejb3.xml_Reference.adoc, after:

[[jboss-ejb3]]
= jboss-ejb3.xml Reference

`jboss-ejb3.xml` is a custom deployment descriptor that can be placed in
either ejb-jar or war archives. If it is placed in an ejb-jar then it
must be placed in the `META-INF` folder, in a web archive it must be
placed in the `WEB-INF` folder.

The contents of `jboss-ejb3.xml` are merged with the contents of
`ejb-jar.xml`, with the `jboss-ejb3.xml` items taking precedence.

[[example-file]]
== Example File

A simple example is shown below:

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<?xml version="1.1" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<jboss:ejb-jar xmlns:jboss="http://www.jboss.com/xml/ns/javaee"
               xmlns="http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee"
               xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
               xmlns:s="urn:security:1.1"
               xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.jboss.com/xml/ns/javaee http://www.jboss.org/j2ee/schema/jboss-ejb3-2_0.xsd http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee http://www.jboss.org/j2ee/schema/jboss-ejb3-spec-2_0.xsd"
               version="3.1"
               impl-version="2.0">
    <enterprise-beans>
        <message-driven>
            <ejb-name>ReplyingMDB</ejb-name>
            <ejb-class>org.jboss.as.test.integration.ejb.mdb.messagedestination.ReplyingMDB</ejb-class>
            <activation-config>
                <activation-config-property>
                    <activation-config-property-name>destination</activation-config-property-name>
                    <activation-config-property-value>java:jboss/mdbtest/messageDestinationQueue
                    </activation-config-property-value>
                </activation-config-property>
            </activation-config>
        </message-driven>
    </enterprise-beans>
    <assembly-descriptor>
        <s:security>
            <ejb-name>DDMyDomainSFSB</ejb-name>
            <s:security-domain>myDomain</s:security-domain>
            <s:run-as-principal>myPrincipal</s:run-as-principal>
        </s:security>
    </assembly-descriptor>
</jboss:ejb-jar>
----

As you can see the format is largely similar to `ejb-jar.xml`, in fact
they even use the same namespaces, however `jboss-ejb3.xml` adds some
additional namespaces of its own to allow for configuring non-spec info.
The format of the standard `http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee` is well
documented elsewhere, this document will cover the non-standard
namespaces.

NOTE: Namespace "http://www.jboss.com/xml/ns/javaee" is bound to "jboss-ejb3-spec-2_0.xsd": this file redefines some elements of "ejb-jar_3_1.xml"

[[the-root-namespace-httpwww.jboss.comxmlnsjavaee]]
=== The root namespace http://www.jboss.com/xml/ns/javaee

[[assembly-descriptor-namespaces]]
=== Assembly descriptor namespaces

The following namespaces can all be used in the `<assembly-descriptor>`
element. They can be used to apply their configuration to a single bean,
or to all beans in the deployment by using `*` as the `ejb-name`.

[[the-security-namespace-urnsecurity]]
==== The security namespace urn:security

This allows you to set the security domain and the run-as principal for
an Jakarta Enterprise Beans.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<s:security>
  <ejb-name>*</ejb-name>
  <s:security-domain>myDomain</s:security-domain>
  <s:run-as-principal>myPrincipal</s:run-as-principal>
</s:security>
----

[[the-resource-adaptor-namespace-urnresource-adapter-binding]]
==== The resource adaptor namespace urn:resource-adapter-binding

This allows you to set the resource adaptor for an MDB.

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<r:resource-adapter-binding>
  <ejb-name>*</ejb-name>
  <r:resource-adapter-name>myResourceAdaptor</r:resource-adapter-name>
</r:resource-adapter-binding>
----

[[the-iiop-namespace-urniiop]]
==== The IIOP namespace urn:iiop

The IIOP namespace is where IIOP settings are configured. As there are
quite a large number of options these are covered in the
<<Jakarta_Enterprise_Beans_IIOP_Guide,IIOP guide>>.

[[the-pool-namespace-urnejb-pool1.0]]
==== The pool namespace urn:ejb-pool:1.0

This allows you to select the pool that is used by the SLSB or MDB.
Pools are defined in the server configuration (i.e. `standalone.xml` or
`domain.xml`)

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<p:pool>
  <ejb-name>*</ejb-name>
  <p:bean-instance-pool-ref>my-pool</p:bean-instance-pool-ref>
</p:pool>
----

[[the-cache-namespace-urnejb-cache1.0]]
==== The cache namespace urn:ejb-cache:1.0

This allows you to select the cache that is used by the SFSB. Caches are
defined in the server configuration (i.e. `standalone.xml` or
`domain.xml`)

[source,xml,options="nowrap"]
----
<c:cache>
  <ejb-name>*</ejb-name>
  <c:cache-ref>my-cache</c:cache-ref>
</c:cache>
----

[[the-clustering-namespace-urnclustering1.0]]
==== The clustering namespace urn:clustering:1.0

This namespace is deprecated and as of WildFly {wildflyVersion} its use has no effect.
The clustering behavior of Jakarta Enterprise Beans are determined by the profile in use on
the server.
