docs/src/main/asciidoc/_galleon/Galleon_provisioning.adoc, before:

[[Galleon_Provisioning]]
= Provisioning WildFly with Galleon

As opposed to a using traditional WildFly zip installation that installs it all (all default
server configurations and all JBoss modules), using https://github.com/wildfly/galleon[Galleon] tooling
you can choose to install a complete or customized WildFly server.

More information on Galleon features and tooling can be found in the Galleon https://docs.wildfly.org/galleon/[docs].

== Download and Installation of the Galleon Command Line Tool

Releases of the Galleon command line tool are available on the Galleon link:https://github.com/wildfly/galleon/releases[releases page].

Download and unzip the release zip and add the `bin` dir to your system path. Use `galleon.sh` or `galleon.bat` to launch the tool.

== WildFly Galleon feature-packs

WildFly provides a Galleon feature-pack maven artifact (a zipped file that contains 
everything needed to dynamically provision a server). 
This feature-pack, as well as the feature-packs on which its depends,
are deployed in public maven repositories. 

When Galleon is used to install WildFly, WildFly feature-packs are retrieved and 
their content is assembled to create an installation.

== Installing WildFly using Galleon

The Galleon maven plugin or Galleon CLI are used to install WildFly. The latest CLI and documentation can be downloaded 
from the Galleon releases https://github.com/wildfly/galleon/releases[page].

To install the latest final version of WildFly into the directory _my-wildfly-server_ call:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server
----

Once installed, the directory _my-wildfly-server_ contains all that is expected to run a complete WildFly server. 
By default, all standalone and domain configurations are installed.

[NOTE]
====

Append the release version to install an identified release, for example:
[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current#21.0.0.Final --dir=my-wildfly-server
----
====

== Selecting the configurations to install

Galleon allows you to specify only a subset of the default configurations to be installed.

To only install the standalone.xml configuration call:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --default-configs=standalone/standalone.xml
----

To install multiple configurations, a comma separated list of default configurations can be provided, 
for example:
[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --default-configs=standalone/standalone.xml,domain/domain.xml
----

[NOTE]
====

A default configuration is identified by _<configuration model>_/_<configuration name>_. WildFly defines _standalone_ and _domain_ models. 
The _configuration name_ is the XML configuration file name (e.g.: _standalone.xml_, _domain.xml_, _standalone-ha.xml_).
====

[[wildfly_galleon_layers]]
== WildFly Galleon layers

WildFly Galleon feature-packs expose some link:++https://docs.wildfly.org/galleon/#_layers++[Galleon layers]. 
A layer identifies one or more server capabilities that can be installed on its own or
in combination with other layers. For example, if your application (e.g. a microservice)
is only making use of _JAX-RS_, Eclipse MicroProfile Config and _CDI_ server capabilities, you can choose to only install
the _jaxrs_, _microprofile-config_ and _cdi_ layers. The _standalone.xml_ configuration would then only contain the 
required subsystems and their dependencies.

The benefit to installing WildFly using Galleon layers, in addition to configuration 
trim down, is that Galleon only installs the needed content (JBoss Modules modules, scripts, etc.)

To install a server only configured with the _JAX-RS_ and _CDI_ capabilities call:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=cdi,jaxrs
----

Once installed, the directory _my-wildfly-server_ contains all that is expected to deploy an application
that depends on _JAX-RS_ and _CDI_.

Some layers _optionally_ depend on other layers; i.e. the features provided by layer can and by default do make use
of those from another layer, but if those are not present things will still work fine. In such a case if you do not
want the optional capabilities you can exclude the optional layer by prefixing its name with a '-'. For example
to exclude the optional _CDI_ dependency on _Bean Validation_:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=cdi,jaxrs,-bean-validation
----

[NOTE]
====

* Tools (jboss-cli, add-user, ...) are not always installed when installing WildFly using layers.
In some cases, depending on what layers you use, only server launcher scripts are installed into the _bin_ directory.
To include these tools include the _core-tools_ layer.
====

include::Galleon_layers.adoc[]

[[galleon-cli-recipes]]
=== Galleon CLI recipes

Using the Galleon CLI tool, you can provision WildFly installations based on a set of layers.

[NOTE]
====
In order to exclude an optional layer prefix its name with '-', for example: '-jpa' to exclude the jpa layer.
====

==== Installation of a cloud-server

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=cloud-server
----

==== Installation of a cloud-server with support for https (using legacy core ApplicationRealm)

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=cloud-server,undertow-legacy-https
----

==== Installation of a cloud-server and ejb with ejb-dist-cache as an alternative to ejb-local-cache

This is done by excluding the _ejb_ layer's optional _ejb-local-cache_ dependency and specifying its _ejb-dist-cache_
alternative:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=cloud-server,ejb,-ejb-local-cache,ejb-dist-cache
----

==== Installation of a jaxrs-server with jpa-distributed as an alternative to jpa

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=jaxrs-server,-jpa,jpa-distributed
----

==== Installation of jaxrs, cdi, elytron and logging

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=jaxrs,cdi,elytron,logging
----

==== Installation of a servlet container with main core functionalities

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=web-server,core-server
----

==== Installation of a servlet container with support for https (using legacy core ApplicationRealm)

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=web-server,undertow-legacy-https
----

==== Installation of a core server

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=core-server
----

Commit message:

WFLY-14327 Replace 'Java API for RESTful Web Services|JAX-RS, JavaServer Pages Standard Tag Library|JSTL, Java API for JSON Processing|JSON-P, Java API for XML-Based RPC|JAX-RPC' references in java doc with corresponding Jakarta EE ones

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_galleon/Galleon_provisioning.adoc, after:

[[Galleon_Provisioning]]
= Provisioning WildFly with Galleon

As opposed to a using traditional WildFly zip installation that installs it all (all default
server configurations and all JBoss modules), using https://github.com/wildfly/galleon[Galleon] tooling
you can choose to install a complete or customized WildFly server.

More information on Galleon features and tooling can be found in the Galleon https://docs.wildfly.org/galleon/[docs].

== Download and Installation of the Galleon Command Line Tool

Releases of the Galleon command line tool are available on the Galleon link:https://github.com/wildfly/galleon/releases[releases page].

Download and unzip the release zip and add the `bin` dir to your system path. Use `galleon.sh` or `galleon.bat` to launch the tool.

== WildFly Galleon feature-packs

WildFly provides a Galleon feature-pack maven artifact (a zipped file that contains 
everything needed to dynamically provision a server). 
This feature-pack, as well as the feature-packs on which its depends,
are deployed in public maven repositories. 

When Galleon is used to install WildFly, WildFly feature-packs are retrieved and 
their content is assembled to create an installation.

== Installing WildFly using Galleon

The Galleon maven plugin or Galleon CLI are used to install WildFly. The latest CLI and documentation can be downloaded 
from the Galleon releases https://github.com/wildfly/galleon/releases[page].

To install the latest final version of WildFly into the directory _my-wildfly-server_ call:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server
----

Once installed, the directory _my-wildfly-server_ contains all that is expected to run a complete WildFly server. 
By default, all standalone and domain configurations are installed.

[NOTE]
====

Append the release version to install an identified release, for example:
[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current#21.0.0.Final --dir=my-wildfly-server
----
====

== Selecting the configurations to install

Galleon allows you to specify only a subset of the default configurations to be installed.

To only install the standalone.xml configuration call:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --default-configs=standalone/standalone.xml
----

To install multiple configurations, a comma separated list of default configurations can be provided, 
for example:
[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --default-configs=standalone/standalone.xml,domain/domain.xml
----

[NOTE]
====

A default configuration is identified by _<configuration model>_/_<configuration name>_. WildFly defines _standalone_ and _domain_ models. 
The _configuration name_ is the XML configuration file name (e.g.: _standalone.xml_, _domain.xml_, _standalone-ha.xml_).
====

[[wildfly_galleon_layers]]
== WildFly Galleon layers

WildFly Galleon feature-packs expose some link:++https://docs.wildfly.org/galleon/#_layers++[Galleon layers]. 
A layer identifies one or more server capabilities that can be installed on its own or
in combination with other layers. For example, if your application (e.g. a microservice)
is only making use of _Jakarta-RESTful-Web-Services_, Eclipse MicroProfile Config and _CDI_ server capabilities, you can choose to only install
the _jaxrs_, _microprofile-config_ and _cdi_ layers. The _standalone.xml_ configuration would then only contain the 
required subsystems and their dependencies.

The benefit to installing WildFly using Galleon layers, in addition to configuration 
trim down, is that Galleon only installs the needed content (JBoss Modules modules, scripts, etc.)

To install a server only configured with the _Jakarta-RESTful-Web-Services_ and _CDI_ capabilities call:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=cdi,jaxrs
----

Once installed, the directory _my-wildfly-server_ contains all that is expected to deploy an application
that depends on _Jakarta-RESTful-Web-Services_ and _CDI_.

Some layers _optionally_ depend on other layers; i.e. the features provided by layer can and by default do make use
of those from another layer, but if those are not present things will still work fine. In such a case if you do not
want the optional capabilities you can exclude the optional layer by prefixing its name with a '-'. For example
to exclude the optional _CDI_ dependency on _Bean Validation_:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=cdi,jaxrs,-bean-validation
----

[NOTE]
====

* Tools (jboss-cli, add-user, ...) are not always installed when installing WildFly using layers.
In some cases, depending on what layers you use, only server launcher scripts are installed into the _bin_ directory.
To include these tools include the _core-tools_ layer.
====

include::Galleon_layers.adoc[]

[[galleon-cli-recipes]]
=== Galleon CLI recipes

Using the Galleon CLI tool, you can provision WildFly installations based on a set of layers.

[NOTE]
====
In order to exclude an optional layer prefix its name with '-', for example: '-jpa' to exclude the jpa layer.
====

==== Installation of a cloud-server

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=cloud-server
----

==== Installation of a cloud-server with support for https (using legacy core ApplicationRealm)

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=cloud-server,undertow-legacy-https
----

==== Installation of a cloud-server and ejb with ejb-dist-cache as an alternative to ejb-local-cache

This is done by excluding the _ejb_ layer's optional _ejb-local-cache_ dependency and specifying its _ejb-dist-cache_
alternative:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=cloud-server,ejb,-ejb-local-cache,ejb-dist-cache
----

==== Installation of a jaxrs-server with jpa-distributed as an alternative to jpa

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=jaxrs-server,-jpa,jpa-distributed
----

==== Installation of jaxrs, cdi, elytron and logging

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=jaxrs,cdi,elytron,logging
----

==== Installation of a servlet container with main core functionalities

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=web-server,core-server
----

==== Installation of a servlet container with support for https (using legacy core ApplicationRealm)

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=web-server,undertow-legacy-https
----

==== Installation of a core server

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
galleon.sh install wildfly:current --dir=my-wildfly-server --layers=core-server
----
