docs/src/main/asciidoc/Bootable_Guide.adoc, before:

[[Bootable_Guide]]
= Bootable JAR Guide
WildFly team;
:revnumber: {version}
:revdate: {localdate}
:toc: macro
:toclevels: 3
:toc-title: Bootable JAR Guide
:doctype: book
:icons: font
:source-highlighter: coderay
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: images/]

// ifndef::ebook-format[:leveloffset: 1]

(C) 2020 The original authors.

ifdef::basebackend-html[toc::[]]
:numbered:

[[wildfly_bootable_JAR_development]]
= WildFly bootable JAR application development

This document details the steps to follow in order to develop a WildFly application
packaged as a bootable JAR. A bootable JAR can be run both on bare-metal and cloud platforms.

Developing an application packaged as a bootable JAR is not different from developing an application for a traditional
WildFly server installation using Maven.
The extra steps required to package your application inside a bootable JAR are handled by the 
https://github.com/wildfly-extras/wildfly-jar-maven-plugin[_org.wildfly.plugins:wildfly-jar-maven-plugin_] Maven plugin.

This document contains the minimal information set required to build and run a WildFly bootable JAR. 
Complete information on the Maven plugin usage can be found in the bootable JAR https://docs.wildfly.org/bootablejar/[documentation].

[[wildfly-jar-maven-plugin-pom-configuration]]
== Adding the bootable JAR Maven plugin to your pom file

This is done by adding an extra build step to your application deployment Maven pom.xml file.

[source,xml]
----
<build>
  <plugins>
    <plugin>
      <groupId>org.wildfly.plugins</groupId>
      <artifactId>wildfly-jar-maven-plugin</artifactId>
      <configuration>
        ...
      </configuration>
      <executions>
        <execution>
          <goals>
            <goal>package</goal>
          </goals>
        </execution>
      </executions>
    </plugin>
  </plugins>
</build>
----

The next chapter covers the plugin configuration items that are required to identify the WildFly server version and content.

[[wildfly-jar-maven-plugin-galleon-configuration]]
== Galleon configuration

The Bootable JAR Maven plugin depends on https://docs.wildfly.org/galleon/[Galleon] to construct the WildFly server contained in the JAR file. 

Galleon is configured thanks to the Maven plugin ```<configuration>``` element.

The first required piece of information that Galleon needs is a reference to the WildFly Galleon feature-pack. 
The WildFly Galleon feature-pack is a maven artifact that contains everything needed to dynamically provision a server. 
This feature-pack, as well as the feature-packs on which its depends,
are deployed in public maven repositories. 

When the bootable JAR Maven plugin builds a JAR, WildFly feature-packs are retrieved and 
their content is assembled to create the server contained in the JAR.

Once you have identified a WildFly Galleon feature-pack, you need to select a set of 
link:#wildfly_layers[WildFly Layers] that are used to compose the server.

The set of Galleon layers to include is driven by the needs of the application you are developing.
The list of link:#wildfly_layers[WildFly Layers] provides details on 
the server features that each layer brings. Make sure that the API and server features you are using (eg: Jakarta RESTful Web Services, Eclipse MicroProfile Config, datasources)
are provided by the layers you are choosing.

If you decide not to specify Galleon layers, a server containing all MicroProfile subsystems is
provisioned. (The server configuration is identical to the ```standalone-microprofile.xml``` configuration
in the traditional WildFly server zip.)

Maven Plugin configuration extract example:

[source,xml]
----
<build>
  <plugins>
    <plugin>
      <groupId>org.wildfly.plugins</groupId>
      <artifactId>wildfly-jar-maven-plugin</artifactId>
      <configuration>
        <feature-pack-location>wildfly@maven(org.jboss.universe:community-universe)</feature-pack-location> (1)
        <layers>
          <layer>jaxrs-server</layer> (2)
        </layers>
      </configuration>
      <executions>
        <execution>
          <goals>
            <goal>package</goal>
          </goals>
        </execution>
      </executions>
    </plugin>
  </plugins>
</build>
----

(1) In this plugin configuration extract, we are retrieving the latest WildFly Galleon feature-pack installed in the
 ```org.jboss.universe:community-universe``` Galleon universe. In case you would like to provision a specific version of the server,
you would need to specify the server version, for example ```wildfly@maven(org.jboss.universe:community-universe)#21.0.0.Final```

(2) The link:#gal.jaxrs-server[jaxrs-server layer] and all its dependencies are provisioned. 

include::_galleon/Galleon_layers.adoc[]

[[wildfly-jar-maven-plugin-additional-configuration]]
== Additional configuration

The plugin allows you to specify additional configuration items:

* A set of WildFly CLI scripts to execute to fine tune the server configuration. 
* Some extra content to be copied inside the bootable JAR (e.g.: server keystore).

Check https://docs.wildfly.org/bootablejar[this documentation] for more details on how to configure execution of
CLI scripts and to package extra content.

[[wildfly-jar-maven-plugin-build]]
== Packaging your application

Call ``` mvn package```  to package both your application and the bootable JAR in the file ```<project build directory>/<project final name>-bootable.jar```

In order to speed-up the development of your application (avoid rebuilding the JAR each time your application is re-compiled), 
the Maven plugin offers a _development_ mode that allows you to build and start the bootable JAR only once.

Check https://docs.wildfly.org/bootablejar[this documentation] for more details on the _development_ mode.

[[wildfly-jar-maven-plugin-run]]
== Running your application

Call ```java -jar <path to bootable JAR> <arguments>```

In additon, you can use the ```wildfly-jar:run``` and ```wildfly-jar:start``` plugin goals to launch the bootable JAR.

[[wildfly-bootable-jar-arguments]]
=== Bootable JAR arguments

The following arguments can be used when starting the bootable JAR:

|===
|Option |Description

|-b[interface]=<value>
|Set system property jboss.bind.address.<interface> to the given value

|-b=<value>
|Set system property jboss.bind.address to the given value

|-D<name>[=<value>] 
|Set a system property. The system properties are set by the server. They are not set by the bootable JAR JVM.

|--help
|Display help then exit

|--deployment=<path to WAR/JAR/EAR file or exploded deployment directory>
|Application to install in the hollow JAR. Adding a deployment to an bootable JAR already containing a deployment is invalid.

|--display-galleon-config
|Display the content of the Galleon configuration used to build this bootable JAR.

|--install-dir=<path to directory to install server in>
|By default a new TEMP directory is created. TEMP directory location is controlled by the Java VM (call to ```Files.createTempDirectory```).

|--properties=<url>
|Load system properties from the given url

|-S<name>[=value]
|Set a security property

|-secmgr
|Activate and install the `WildFlySecurityManager`.

|-u=<value>
|Set system property jboss.default.multicast.address to the given value.

|--version
|Print version and exit.

|===

Commit message:

Document --cli-script introduced by WFCORE-5324

docs/src/main/asciidoc/Bootable_Guide.adoc, after:

[[Bootable_Guide]]
= Bootable JAR Guide
WildFly team;
:revnumber: {version}
:revdate: {localdate}
:toc: macro
:toclevels: 3
:toc-title: Bootable JAR Guide
:doctype: book
:icons: font
:source-highlighter: coderay
ifdef::env-github[:imagesdir: images/]

// ifndef::ebook-format[:leveloffset: 1]

(C) 2020 The original authors.

ifdef::basebackend-html[toc::[]]
:numbered:

[[wildfly_bootable_JAR_development]]
= WildFly bootable JAR application development

This document details the steps to follow in order to develop a WildFly application
packaged as a bootable JAR. A bootable JAR can be run both on bare-metal and cloud platforms.

Developing an application packaged as a bootable JAR is not different from developing an application for a traditional
WildFly server installation using Maven.
The extra steps required to package your application inside a bootable JAR are handled by the 
https://github.com/wildfly-extras/wildfly-jar-maven-plugin[_org.wildfly.plugins:wildfly-jar-maven-plugin_] Maven plugin.

This document contains the minimal information set required to build and run a WildFly bootable JAR. 
Complete information on the Maven plugin usage can be found in the bootable JAR https://docs.wildfly.org/bootablejar/[documentation].

[[wildfly-jar-maven-plugin-pom-configuration]]
== Adding the bootable JAR Maven plugin to your pom file

This is done by adding an extra build step to your application deployment Maven pom.xml file.

[source,xml]
----
<build>
  <plugins>
    <plugin>
      <groupId>org.wildfly.plugins</groupId>
      <artifactId>wildfly-jar-maven-plugin</artifactId>
      <configuration>
        ...
      </configuration>
      <executions>
        <execution>
          <goals>
            <goal>package</goal>
          </goals>
        </execution>
      </executions>
    </plugin>
  </plugins>
</build>
----

The next chapter covers the plugin configuration items that are required to identify the WildFly server version and content.

[[wildfly-jar-maven-plugin-galleon-configuration]]
== Galleon configuration

The Bootable JAR Maven plugin depends on https://docs.wildfly.org/galleon/[Galleon] to construct the WildFly server contained in the JAR file. 

Galleon is configured thanks to the Maven plugin ```<configuration>``` element.

The first required piece of information that Galleon needs is a reference to the WildFly Galleon feature-pack. 
The WildFly Galleon feature-pack is a maven artifact that contains everything needed to dynamically provision a server. 
This feature-pack, as well as the feature-packs on which its depends,
are deployed in public maven repositories. 

When the bootable JAR Maven plugin builds a JAR, WildFly feature-packs are retrieved and 
their content is assembled to create the server contained in the JAR.

Once you have identified a WildFly Galleon feature-pack, you need to select a set of 
link:#wildfly_layers[WildFly Layers] that are used to compose the server.

The set of Galleon layers to include is driven by the needs of the application you are developing.
The list of link:#wildfly_layers[WildFly Layers] provides details on 
the server features that each layer brings. Make sure that the API and server features you are using (eg: Jakarta RESTful Web Services, Eclipse MicroProfile Config, datasources)
are provided by the layers you are choosing.

If you decide not to specify Galleon layers, a server containing all MicroProfile subsystems is
provisioned. (The server configuration is identical to the ```standalone-microprofile.xml``` configuration
in the traditional WildFly server zip.)

Maven Plugin configuration extract example:

[source,xml]
----
<build>
  <plugins>
    <plugin>
      <groupId>org.wildfly.plugins</groupId>
      <artifactId>wildfly-jar-maven-plugin</artifactId>
      <configuration>
        <feature-pack-location>wildfly@maven(org.jboss.universe:community-universe)</feature-pack-location> (1)
        <layers>
          <layer>jaxrs-server</layer> (2)
        </layers>
      </configuration>
      <executions>
        <execution>
          <goals>
            <goal>package</goal>
          </goals>
        </execution>
      </executions>
    </plugin>
  </plugins>
</build>
----

(1) In this plugin configuration extract, we are retrieving the latest WildFly Galleon feature-pack installed in the
 ```org.jboss.universe:community-universe``` Galleon universe. In case you would like to provision a specific version of the server,
you would need to specify the server version, for example ```wildfly@maven(org.jboss.universe:community-universe)#21.0.0.Final```

(2) The link:#gal.jaxrs-server[jaxrs-server layer] and all its dependencies are provisioned. 

include::_galleon/Galleon_layers.adoc[]

[[wildfly-jar-maven-plugin-additional-configuration]]
== Additional configuration

The plugin allows you to specify additional configuration items:

* A set of WildFly CLI scripts to execute to fine tune the server configuration. 
* Some extra content to be copied inside the bootable JAR (e.g.: server keystore).

Check https://docs.wildfly.org/bootablejar[this documentation] for more details on how to configure execution of
CLI scripts and to package extra content.

[[wildfly-jar-maven-plugin-build]]
== Packaging your application

Call ``` mvn package```  to package both your application and the bootable JAR in the file ```<project build directory>/<project final name>-bootable.jar```

In order to speed-up the development of your application (avoid rebuilding the JAR each time your application is re-compiled), 
the Maven plugin offers a _development_ mode that allows you to build and start the bootable JAR only once.

Check https://docs.wildfly.org/bootablejar[this documentation] for more details on the _development_ mode.

[[wildfly-jar-maven-plugin-run]]
== Running your application

Call ```java -jar <path to bootable JAR> <arguments>```

In additon, you can use the ```wildfly-jar:run``` and ```wildfly-jar:start``` plugin goals to launch the bootable JAR.

[[wildfly-bootable-jar-arguments]]
=== Bootable JAR arguments

The following arguments can be used when starting the bootable JAR:

|===
|Option |Description

|-b[interface]=<value>
|Set system property jboss.bind.address.<interface> to the given value

|-b=<value>
|Set system property jboss.bind.address to the given value

|-D<name>[=<value>] 
|Set a system property. The system properties are set by the server. They are not set by the bootable JAR JVM.

|--help
|Display help then exit

|--cli-script=<path to CLI script file>
|Path to a CLI script to execute when starting the Bootable JAR

|--deployment=<path to WAR/JAR/EAR file or exploded deployment directory>
|Application to install in the hollow JAR. Adding a deployment to an bootable JAR already containing a deployment is invalid.

|--display-galleon-config
|Display the content of the Galleon configuration used to build this bootable JAR.

|--install-dir=<path to directory to install server in>
|By default a new TEMP directory is created. TEMP directory location is controlled by the Java VM (call to ```Files.createTempDirectory```).

|--properties=<url>
|Load system properties from the given url

|-S<name>[=value]
|Set a security property

|-secmgr
|Activate and install the `WildFlySecurityManager`.

|-u=<value>
|Set system property jboss.default.multicast.address to the given value.

|--version
|Print version and exit.

|===
