docs/src/main/asciidoc/Quickstarts.adoc, before:

[[Quickstarts]]
= Quickstarts

WildFly ships with a number of quickstarts that show you how to get
started with a variety of technologies in WildFly. You'll find out how
to write a web application using the latest Jakarta EE technologies like
Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection and Jakarta RESTful Web Services.
How to write client libraries to talk to WildFly using web services, JMS or EJB. 
How to set up a distributed transaction, and how to recover from a 
transaction failure. And much, much more.

[[getting-started]]
== Getting Started

Some of the quickstarts are described in great detail in the
link:Getting_Started_Developing_Applications_Guide.html[Getting Started
Developing Applications Guide], which focuses on how get WildFly and
Eclipse, with JBoss Tools set up, and how to build web applications.

The other quickstarts are all described in README files and code
comments, including what to look out for, how to install and start
WildFly, and how to deploy and test the quickstart.

To download the quickstarts, visit
https://github.com/wildfly/quickstart.

[[contributing]]
== Contributing

If you want to contribute to the quickstarts, check out our
link:https://github.com/jboss-developer/jboss-developer-shared-resources/blob/master/guides/CONTRIBUTING.md#contribute-a-quickstart[Contributing a Quickstart] page.

Commit message:

WFLY-14320 Replace 'Enterprise JavaBeans|EJB' references in java doc with corresponding Jakarta EE ones

docs/src/main/asciidoc/Quickstarts.adoc, after:

[[Quickstarts]]
= Quickstarts

WildFly ships with a number of quickstarts that show you how to get
started with a variety of technologies in WildFly. You'll find out how
to write a web application using the latest Jakarta EE technologies like
Jakarta Contexts and Dependency Injection and Jakarta RESTful Web Services.
How to write client libraries to talk to WildFly using web services, Jakarta Messaging or Jakarta Enterprise Beans. 
How to set up a distributed transaction, and how to recover from a 
transaction failure. And much, much more.

[[getting-started]]
== Getting Started

Some of the quickstarts are described in great detail in the
link:Getting_Started_Developing_Applications_Guide.html[Getting Started
Developing Applications Guide], which focuses on how get WildFly and
Eclipse, with JBoss Tools set up, and how to build web applications.

The other quickstarts are all described in README files and code
comments, including what to look out for, how to install and start
WildFly, and how to deploy and test the quickstart.

To download the quickstarts, visit
https://github.com/wildfly/quickstart.

[[contributing]]
== Contributing

If you want to contribute to the quickstarts, check out our
link:https://github.com/jboss-developer/jboss-developer-shared-resources/blob/master/guides/CONTRIBUTING.md#contribute-a-quickstart[Contributing a Quickstart] page.
