docs/src/main/asciidoc/_elytron/OpenSSL.adoc, before:

[[OpenSSL]]
= OpenSSL

There are a couple ways you can configure WildFly to use the OpenSSL TLS provider.

=== Configure the Elytron subsystem to use the OpenSSL TLS provider by default

The following commands can be used to configure the Elytron subsystem so that the OpenSSL TLS
provider is used by default:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
/subsystem=elytron:write-attribute(name=initial-providers, value=combined-providers)
/subsystem=elytron:undefine-attribute(name=final-providers)
reload
----

=== Configure the OpenSSL TLS provider on an SSL context

Instead of configuring the Elytron subsystem to use the OpenSSL TLS provider by default,
it is also possible to specify that the OpenSSL TLS provider should be used for a specific
SSL context. For example, the following command can be used to create a `server-ssl-context`
that will use the OpenSSL TLS provider:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
/subsystem=elytron/server-ssl-context=httpsSSC:add(providers=openssl, ...)
reload
----

=== OpenSSL Library Location

WildFly will search for the OpenSSL library using the standard system library search path. If you'd like to specify a
custom location for the OpenSSL library, the `org.wildfly.openssl.path` property can be specified during WildFly startup.

If OpenSSL was loaded successfully, a message similar to the one below will occur in the `server.log` file on startup:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
15:37:59,814 INFO [org.wildfly.openssl.SSL] (MSC service thread 1-7) WFOPENSSL0002 OpenSSL Version OpenSSL 1.1.1d FIPS  10 Sep 2019
----

=== TLSv1.3

TLSv1.3 will be enabled by default when using OpenSSL 1.1.1 or higher and when running against JDK 11 or higher.
OpenSSL will use the following TLSv1.3 cipher suites by default:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384:TLS_CHACHA20_POLY1305_SHA256:TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
----

The `cipher-suite-names` attribute for an SSL context can also be used to configure the TLSv1.3 cipher suites
you would like to use. See the sections on <<configuring-a-server-sslcontext,Configuring a server SSLContext>>
and <<configuring-a-client-sslcontext,Configuring a client SSLContext>>
for more details.

Commit message:

[WFLY-13085] Update the documentation to indicate that TLS 1.3 is disabled by default when using the OpenSSL TLS provider

docs/src/main/asciidoc/_elytron/OpenSSL.adoc, after:

[[OpenSSL]]
= OpenSSL

There are a couple ways you can configure WildFly to use the OpenSSL TLS provider.

=== Configure the Elytron subsystem to use the OpenSSL TLS provider by default

The following commands can be used to configure the Elytron subsystem so that the OpenSSL TLS
provider is used by default:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
/subsystem=elytron:write-attribute(name=initial-providers, value=combined-providers)
/subsystem=elytron:undefine-attribute(name=final-providers)
reload
----

=== Configure the OpenSSL TLS provider on an SSL context

Instead of configuring the Elytron subsystem to use the OpenSSL TLS provider by default,
it is also possible to specify that the OpenSSL TLS provider should be used for a specific
SSL context. For example, the following command can be used to create a `server-ssl-context`
that will use the OpenSSL TLS provider:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
/subsystem=elytron/server-ssl-context=httpsSSC:add(providers=openssl, ...)
reload
----

=== OpenSSL Library Location

WildFly will search for the OpenSSL library using the standard system library search path. If you'd like to specify a
custom location for the OpenSSL library, the `org.wildfly.openssl.path` property can be specified during WildFly startup.

If OpenSSL was loaded successfully, a message similar to the one below will occur in the `server.log` file on startup:

[source,options="nowrap"]
----
15:37:59,814 INFO [org.wildfly.openssl.SSL] (MSC service thread 1-7) WFOPENSSL0002 OpenSSL Version OpenSSL 1.1.1d FIPS  10 Sep 2019
----

=== Enabling TLSv1.3

*WARNING* It is possible to use TLSv1.3 with the OpenSSL TLS provider when using OpenSSL 1.1.1 or higher and
when running against JDK 11 or higher. However, if JDK 11 is in use and if there is a very large number of
TLSv1.3 requests being made, it is possible that a drop in performance (throughput and response time) will occur
compared to TLSv1.2. For this reason, the use of TLSv1.3 is currently disabled by default. TLSv1.3 can be enabled
by configuring the `cipher-suite-names` attribute for an SSL context. See the sections on
<<configuring-a-server-sslcontext,Configuring a server SSLContext>> and
<<configuring-a-client-sslcontext,Configuring a client SSLContext>> for more details. It is recommended to test
for performance degradation prior to enabling TLSv1.3 in a production environment.
